Have you ever tried liquid MDMA? Bob's forehead is sweating and his hair is sticking to it, which he wipes away as he sips his scotch.
Liquid MDMA? No, I never tried it.
Tehran is the world capital!
So, how's the kid?
Great. He's great. Arash just stares. Bob sips his drink.
Are we gonna do this? A girl begins to dance in front of Arash.
After prayer --
You said they were both for you. Arash tosses an envelope at Bob --
What do you care? Bob glances in the envelope. Behind him, the Amiris are picking up the other case. Bob moves toward the curtain. IN THE BACK OF THE SHOP Bob's eyes adjust. Several robed shapes, ghosts in grey light, carry the case out a door. The BARREL OF A GUN touches the side of Bob's head. The SOUND of a SHELL CHAMBERED and a MOUTH BREATHER. Bob raises his hands. The barrel slides around to his forehead and Bob is staring into the blue eyes of MOHAMMED SHEIK AGIZA, 40's, bearded, and calm.
I was looking for the bathroom. MSA seems remarkably serene, then he screams in Arabic.
You don't speak Farsi, do you, you son of a goat? MSA screams again, tightening his finger on the trigger, then he backs out the door, never losing aim on Bob.
If you go back you get promoted. Which could open doors later. For consulting.
Those people back there don't know what's going on. They don't wanna know.
Have you thought about college? Has that made it onto the radar screen?
And it's not like anybody else could roll in here. It's not like it's just reading reports.
I took Pakistan because of the hardship pay. The private school
I believe in what I'm doing, too. They look at each other.
Well, then here we are.
Here we are. In the street it's turning into a full-blown protest.
Let's say, somehow, I get a Branch or even a Group, then what? Will you come? Will you bring Robby? Now, Margaret looks away. A STUDENT-LEADER is up on a platform brandishing a Coke bottle, SHOUTING in Farsi into a bullhorn.
What's he saying?
He's against the ban on Coca-Cola. He says you have to fix your soul, which is not something you can put on a soft-drink. We see the faces of the protesters, silently staring, their mouths covered by black tape.
You are a Cheerio dissemination device. Yes, you are -- Pull back to find his father, BRYAN WOODMAN, American, late 20's, in a shirt and tie. Blonde and blue-eyed like a modern T.E. Lawrence, he's lost in the child, sharing his sense of wonder.
Don't let him do that, please. His wife, JULIE WOODMAN, 28, sleepy American, very fit in sweats, cooks bacon at an older range. They have the worst house in the best neighborhood and have yet to properly furnish it.
. An evolutionarily perfect machine for the spreading of imported Cheerios to all corners of the kitchen. The toddler smiles at him. Julie puts four plates down. They both notice the empty place setting. Just then, a golden boy, MAX, 6, enters the kitchen.
Mommy, I want bacon.
You have bacon. Max sits at the table.
I want real bacon.
You have real bacon, only it's made from soy beans. Max looks at his plate.
I want pig bacon.
Our position is that there is at least twelve dollars of instability premium in the market. Protests in Iran. Threat of more strikes in Venezuela. The Turks still making noise about Russian crude through the Bosphorus.
Long and strong on demand numbers, protests in Iran and, what else is new, the Vens are threatening strike. Place is en fuego --
People want it warmer, colder, they leave their TV's on when they drive to the video store. Twelve bucks of premium -- VINCENT, 30's, depressed, handsome French trader in a beautiful suit, working two phones, sees Bryan --
Bryan waves him off, keeps walking.
Hello, Daddy. I'm playing. That's my job. Playing. ON BRYAN'S DESK, mounds of research, books, reports, numbers. In the phone Bryan can hear Julie laughing.
That's a very good job to have.
Tell Daddy you love him. An abrupt three year-old HANG-UP. Bryan looks up and sees HIS BRITISH BOSS holding a FANCY INVITATION.
The Emir's summer party. In Marbella. Any interest?
 I can't. I've got all this --
I'm not really asking.
It's Max's birthday. We've got stuff all weekend. Vincent sticks his head in the door --
September T-I ticked up fifteen cents and is rebounding. Where's the next resistance level?
Read my report --
 The Emir's party; I'll take that. Vincent tries to snatch the invite.
Through much finagling we have an audience with the Emir. He wrote the strategy and he's not slick.
Are you a director or executive of this company? The leader gnaws on a bone. Bennett points down to a mess of contracts and legal papers in front of him.
Is this your fax number? The leader speaks rapidly in RUSSIAN. Bennett is baffled. Finally, an UNDERLING translates.
He says, we eat every part of the pony!
Ask him if he's been receiving faxes'at this number? Ask him if this is his phone number?  Is this a number to reach you? Again, the leader speaks in rapid Russian.
He says, the weather in Siberia is very cold!
I'm asking you about this payment. Who is this person on the account? Bennett notices a Russian, OSKAR WERNER-TYPE, wearing THICK-FRAMED GLASSES, smoking and staring at him. Another RUSSIAN glances at the paperwork.
Bank is no more.
I know bank is no more. I'm trying to find out where the assets went. The Russians nod to the MUSIC coming from the poles. Now the leader speaks in surprisingly good English.
This is marching music composed for Stalin. Inspiring for workers. The leader smiles at Bennett. It's a scary smile. The THICK-FRAMED GLASSES GUY is still staring.
The investment dollar that matters is one that has army behind it. We are very good friend of United States. Who you want arguing for you in The Hague? Argentina? The leader spreads his arms expansively to take in the miles of empty tundra around them.
A distant shot of the small cluster of humanity in the vast steppe, marching MUSIC drifting across it.
You're not taking this seriously. You don't think this is a problem. One wall is a map of the world except where there should be jagged country boundaries are perfectly straight resource lines. It's color coded: the world divided into energy corporations: EXXON/MOBIL, BRITISH PETROLEUM,
A U.S. Attorney is looking into your relationships in Kazakhstan and the U.S. Government is holding up approval of our merger... At one end of a long table in a corporate boardroom President TOMMY BARTON, 50's, a hatchet-man of Zen-like corporate efficiency, heads a group of EXECUTIVES. A small placard labels this faction - CONNEX.
The Board thinks it's a problem. Mr. Janus certainly thinks it's a
JAMES "JIMMY" POPE, 50's, a powerful presence leavened by Connecticut minor chords, speaks from the far end where an opposing faction is labeled: KILLEEN.
Is the Caspian a lake or a sea, Thomas?
That's an important legal point --
Oh give me another lecture on subsurface rights, Thomas. Jimmy stands. He is imposing in a Lyndon Johnson visits Congress sort of way.
If the Caspian is a sea, you can make deals with the Stans, but if it's a lake, then the rights are shared equally by all countries, including Iran. And by an act of our Congress it is illegal to trade with Iran, so we can't be in business with any of those countries, even though they have oil and we sell it. This is our business, Tommy, selling oil, not finding it. Anyone can find it. It's everywhere. Jimmy motions out the window --
A monkey can stick a straw in the ground, slurp it out and boil it, right, Thomas? But you wanna make it commercial, you wanna turn it into a commodity, then you gotta be able to move it and to move it, you gotta have relationships.
That's enough, Jimmy.
No, I want to talk about The Gulf and how a goddamn E-mir, what is an E-mir anyway --
King. It's a king --
How some podunk King tossed you out on your ass. Jimmy pulls out a sharpie, walks to the Resource Map and defaces it, drawing the outline of an actual country, Kazakhstan, in Central Asia, home of the Tengiz Field.
Every company in the world wanted into Kazakhstan, into the Tengiz, but Killeen got it and then Connex wanted Killeen and here we are. I made investments. Investments that will bear fruit for this company.
Hell, Tommy, we've all got the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act committed to memory. I've got a little copy taped to the wall of my head... Up here.
Thank you, Jimmy. You know how much we appreciate hearing your point of view; however, Mr. Janus and I have asked Connex's Washington counsel, Sydney Hewitt, to come down here and talk about strategy for the next thirty days. The eyes all shift to SYDNEY HEWITT,. 60's, Alabama smooth accent and ever-so-certain.
In a way I feel like Switzerland and I'd like to remind everyone in this room that they've signed confidentiality agreements. Polite LAUGHTER.
And allow me to introduce my associate, Bennett Holiday, who will be, how should I put it, building consensus day to day. Bennett, the only African-American in the room, takes in the faces now all staring at him. All the white faces.
You just visited what someday soon could be the most profitable corporation in America.
Provided the government approves the merger --
Provided we don't start running cars on water. Provided there's still chaos in the Middle-East.
This ain't the SEC anymore, son, and maybe you got a couple scalps on your belt from your time over there - Enron, World Com - but now the job is find the problem, fix the problem. And if you don't find a problem, then there is no problem. Bennett notices that Sydney wears a Mickey Mouse watch.
And WHEN the government approves this merger it's gonna buy a lot of houses out on the Vineyard, maybe even yours, so, of course, it's delicate all around. Who's this U.S. Attorney, Donald Farish the 3rd? What's his agenda? Who's behind him? Is it a political force? Another corporation? Is he a glory boy making a name?
I know him. He taught a class of mine at Georgetown Law. Sydney knew this, of course. Sydney looks Bennett over, then he chuckles, the effect of which is unsettling.
Well, there you go, he taught a class of yours at Georgetown Law. Mr. .Whiting did say to me, I have a feeling about this young man. He said, he can position himself. Sydney stands.
Hold these guys in a circle. Ask the careful questions. I don't need to tell you this is a hell of an opportunity for you to catch those peers who have spent, how should I put it, less time on the government dole.
Your services are no longer needed here at the China Gas and Electric facility. A PAKISTANI translates into Urdu for the-group. Find Saleem and Wasim in the crowd --
What did they say? I can't hear.
They're letting us go.
The whole group?
The whole group. In the distance, the engineer is droning on.
We know you have worked hard and wish to thank you for that hard work with a small cash bonus which you may collect on your way out of the facility.
What did he say? I can't hear. I can't hear.
He's telling us to scram.
Scram? What do you mean, scram? ANGLE ON: The engineer pointing toward the exit of the facility. He turns to another ENGINEER nearby.
The Chinese are smart people, but such bad drivers. They should not be allowed even to wash cars. Wasim doesn't say anything. They walk in silence. Then --
When I was your age, in Pakistan, there was always in the distance--
Snow covered mountains.
That's right. Three hours away, but right there, white across the sky, like you could reach out and touch them. Snow covered mountains. Ahead is transient worker housing. Wasim takes in plywood fencing surrounding identical huts.
As soon as we can, we'll get a real house and bring your mother here. I promise. Wasim just looks at his dad who puts his arm around him. The refinery and power lines shimmer behind them.
Ow, ow, ow, ahhh -- He throws up. The KIDS laugh. He comes up composed --
An announcement. An announcement. If man is made in God's image, then God is deeply messed up. Farooq shoves the cup at Wasim. He tries to push it away.
You afraid? Afraid of the buzz?
I'm afraid of your breath. Wasim points at a silent kid hanging back from the group.
Hakim hasn't had any. And Hakim wears jewelry.
He thinks that little bracelet's gonna get him girls.
 What's wrong with your brother, anyway? Hakim looks to his brother, then lifts up his shirt. There is a recent scar where a kidney would be.
You can drink with one. You don't need two.
Farooq. You have to introduce me.
There isn't any work. Quit pestering me. Hakim, Hakim -- Finally, Hakim sips and holds his side. The boys' cheers are thin and vulnerable in the immense desert. In the distance a luxury car is parked. And U.S. Military officers snap a picture - "Native Boys in Desert."
Bob's freaking out about this other missile. Where's the missile? Who has the missile? He wrote a memo.
.I just finished convincing the. Brits and French Intel we had nothing to do with the Amiri job. Now what do we say: remember that thing we had nothing to do with, well, there's something missing. The Division Chief finishes listening patiently.
Okay, here's something. Put him up for a promotion. Bob's a good guy. He saved our ass in Beirut in '85.
You'll get him an audition
Bob exits into downtown D.C, the traffic lightening. He goes through a tunnel.
Bob's a hero. They'll give him something good. He is an Iran expert.
Fred, Bob's never had a desk job, never done nine-to-five. Can he show up to work everyday? Can he stay on message?
Yes, absolutely. I'll prep him.
Imagine gasoline ten dollars a gallon at the pump. Or heating oil that costs twenty-five hundred a month for a two-bedroom apartment. If oil goes to a hundred a barrel, the U.S. turns into a third-world country. That is a fact.
Do you have any analysis to back up that fact?
In the next fifteen years, The North Sea and Alaska dry up. Two million barrels a day to the U.S. gone. That is a known fact.
I need data supporting known facts. Because what I know is that in the entire region when we even whisper our support, those people are delegitimized. TERRY GEORGE, 40's, Deputy CIA Chief, quite a good guy to those in power, speaks to a DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMAN, 60's. Through the partially open door, one third of Bob is visible.
Iraq had no established ethnic majority.
It's like trying to organize Louisiana. Iran, on the other hand, is Persian -- The Deputy National Security Advisor, MARILYN RICHARDS, 40's, sculpted hair, with the soul of a seventy year-old white, Republican male, is in charge --
There has been some good news concerning Iran lately. Right, Terry?
For Iran, yes --
The President is very interested in Iran, Terry. Marilyn takes in the presence of the DISTINGUISHED GENTLEMEN sitting near her. Terry slides a file across the table to her.
I know that, Marilyn. In fact, we just pulled one of our officers out and I took the initiative to ask him to come down here. He infiltrated Hezbollah in Beirut in the eighties, won himself some nice medals. We're thinking about giving him a station.
Beirut in the eighties, is that a resume builder? Polite chuckles follow Terry George to the doorway.
Don't chomp down on any bait. He looms over Bob, pointedly taps Bob's files --
We're fine. Iran is fine. Fine.
And our analysis seems to be on the mark... And we're getting good satellite coverage. Bob is clearly working from a script. Terry George is pleased and gives Bob the slightest of approving nods.
And we're reprogramming resources into Iran. Our next review will show that ---
Thank you for coming over, Mr. Baer. Welcome back and forgive me if I wade right in, but forgetting for a second your bureaucratic checklist, I'm trying to get undigested information, so if you could give me a reading of the temperature over there? Bob glances at Terry. Exasperated, Marilyn continues.
India is now our ally. Russia is our ally. Even China will be an ally. Everybody between Morocco and Pakistan is the problem. Failed states and failed economies, but Iran is a natural cultural ally of the U.S. The Persians do not want to roll back the clock to the 8th century. I see students marching in the streets. I hear Khatami making the right sounds. And what I'd like to know is if we keep embargoing them on energy, then someday soon are we going to get a nice, secular, pro-Western, pro-business government? The steno guys type away. A long beat on Bob.
It's possible. It's complicated.
Of course it is, Mr. Baer. Thank you for your time. Bob looks to Terry who nods. Bob starts to leave.
 Intelligence is the misnomer of the century. Bob stops. He can't help himself --
They let young people march in the street and then the next day shut down fifty newspapers. They have a few satellite dishes up on roofs, let 'em have My Two Dads, but that doesn't mean the Ayatollahs have relinquished one iota of control over that nation. The steno guys hands are frozen.
Mr. Baer, the reform movement in Iran is one of the President's great hopes for the region and crucial to the petroleum security of the United States.
The Committee for the Liberation of Iran, Mr. Baer.
We've had Iran in embargo for almost thirty years, we backed their neighbor, a neighbor we invaded twice, in a ten year war against them, we're hanging on by a thread with a massive occupation force, so I got news for you... Thomas Jefferson just ain't that popular over there right now. Silence except for the steno guys clicking away, then complete silence. Terry George stares at Bob a long beat.
That will be all, Mr. Baer.
I hear phrases thrown around like "the corrupting influence of money" or "the evil influence of dollars in politics," when more money was spent on the syndication rights to Seinfeld than on the whole of the last presidential election. Bennett just walks past him to open the door.
Last election cycle I spent three hundred thousand. I got pictures of myself with the President that I use all over the world. People don't know Danny Dalton, but they know the President of the United States and they see that I know the President of the United States... Bennett has showered and changed. He makes coffee. The man sits at a dinette. He lights a cigarette.
I'm not making this coffee for you. I'm making it for me. You I'm making oatmeal and then you sleep.
You look like shit.
Are you working?
I had a little trouble at work. Bennett grabs his travel coffee and starts away --
There's some beer in the fridge for after you wake up, so you don't die on my floor of the DT's. And no smoking in my house. Bennett leaves the kitchen. The man yells after him.
I don't need your goddamn hospitality. The front door SLAMS. The man glances up at a photo of Bennett Jr. at his Howard University graduation. And next to it, the man, BENNETT SR., graduating 25 years earlier. ON TV: old, white senators listening judiciously.
In our country we don't stuff dollars into ballot boxes. What we do is turn money into votes and what turns money into votes is free speech - the ability of a candidate to get his message out - and that takes money, real money, meaning, not so loosely translated: MONEY IS SPEECH! And last time I checked, speech in the USA is protected. You can't limit my advocacy just because it works. I have a sovereign, inalienable right to petition my government. Tilt up to find Bennett Senior, part of a six pack dangling from two fingers, staring at a wall covered with an intricate MATRIX of KILLEEN OIL's limited partnerships and strategic alliances all over the world.
The money I gave the President is the best investment I have ever made in my business. Next election cycle I plan to double it.
.I'm probably the tenth guy this month to pitch something like this. It's like the Godfather. Emir, I come to you on this special day. Vincent is riding motorcycles through Cambodia, through land-mines. Some charity thing.
That's guilt not charity. He's Catholic and can't view himself as a shallow model f.u.c.k.e.r, which he is. And when war breaks out in some energy producing country, he's the first one into work. Bryan looks at her.
Honey... you're a man who supports his family, not a boy.
I thought you like him. Vincent.
I do, honey. For you, I like him very much. She takes his hand as they walk.
Please, attention please, your host, his majesty, the Emir... ON A TV MONITOR: the Emir, HAMAD AL-SUBAAI, 60's, bearded, overweight, sitting in front of greenery, his TWO SONS behind him, addresses his party guests.
It is my pleasure to personally welcome each of you to the Casa De Las Palmas, our oasis of palms in the south of Spain.
And symbolic of the affection of my people for each of you. At nine o'clock, we will have wonderful music from the London Philharmonic. Please eat and socialize and enjoy. The Emir ignores himself on TV and turns to business. He recently had a stroke and was filmed from his good side.
 I am happy to welcome the Chinese to my country and optimistic you will not be nearly as greedy as the Americans. Assiduous nods from the CHINESE oil executives as the King's young Japanese SECRETARY slides contracts across.
Arabs are very family oriented, as a people. Is that racist? Max, a book-oriented, rather than water-oriented, child is afraid to jump in.
Don't. Let him work this out. It's important for his autonomy. Max finds his courage, jumps, and disappears beneath the surface, then bobs up happily. Julie smiles.
Hedge strategies are tough for these guys. Oil goes up the people wonder why those extra billions aren't in the treasury. Prices go down, no one's thanking them for saving a few bucks. Julie looks at her husband to determine whether he's testing his "pitch" or in need of encouragement.
Make a game of it. Pretend they're six year-olds and you have to get them to eat carrots and all they want is dessert. Make it about good parenting.
The house is a Genius-Home. One of my sons had it wired by experts from the United States.
watch... ON TV: the image of a rear guard house. Suddenly, the gate slides back, stops, slides the other way.
Oh, look, it's getting dark, better turn on the lights -- ON SIX OF SEVEN MONITORS: pool lights turn on, shimmering turquoise. One pool remains dark. The Emir notices the dark pool. He presses the device. ON THE MONITOR: The lights go off. He presses again. Six pools light up, but one is still dark. The Emir ignores his son and speaks for the room.
Send a fool on a fool's errand. Meshal frantically tries to make the pool light come on.
We regret that His Highness will be unable to see you. However, we are authorized to hear your proposition on his behalf.
Here? They nod. Bryan looks around. It's awkward.
Well, okay... The real worry facing you guys is another year of record pricing. There are no more elephant fields. Not even in Natural Gas. As structural alternatives are more fully realized you'll need a new strategy to maximize every penny from your existing resources, particularly in a climate of falling prices. One businessman turns to the other --
You're the shark and you try to tag us as we swim across. Max is uncertain, eyeing the dark water. From somewhere distant the LONDON PHILHARMONIC begins to play.
You jump in and count one, two, three, then we all try to get to the other side. Max stares at the dark water. It's not inviting. Finally, he jumps. He hits the water and goes rigid, almost skittering across the surface, flopping uncontrollably.
Cut the power! Cut the power! Bryan enters the area. He sees Julie being restrained. And a body in the water. As the estate goes dark, Bryan dives and holds Max, wading to the side with the lifeless body.
Two of my wife's kids got deported for not having work.
I'm sorry. I already have a long list for that, too.
Why are they running after him?
Maybe he has a knife or committed a crime or something. Wasim, Farooq, other men and boys watch a small TV in a cheap trailer, housing for immigrant labor.
They gave us french fries at the Madrassa. Wasim's father, Saleem, enters with a few groceries.
Papa, close the door.
His sister has a thing for you.
His sister has a big ass.
And lamb. We got skewers of lamb.
I like lamb. The children's faces are lit by the TV'S glowing light.
Hot today. Can't remember the streets this hot. Saleem looks around, sees if anyone was listening, then takes the old man's arm.
You don't want to talk here. Suddenly, a POLICEMAN shoves Saleem from behind. Saleem turns to the officer, already apologizing, but Wasim steps between them. The cop pushes Wasim with his baton.
Tough guy? Is that right, tough guy? What's your name, tough guy? Wasim doesn't say anything. Yunus watches his father and brother. The cop pokes Wasim again with the stick --
What's your name?
Johnny. The policeman swiftly brings his club down on Wasim's head, dropping him to his knees. other POLICEMEN close. Saleem gets in the middle, but is beaten down. Wasim tries to reach for Yunus who is SCREAMING and hitting at the policeman's legs. A club comes down on Wasim's head --
I learned the value of diversity in my time at the Model U.N. And, across the rich leather and wood anteroom of a Princeton admissions office, Bob and Robby also wait.
Maybe you'll get made Ambassador to somewhere cool, like France or Italy or Ghana. What's your dad do? He's Ambassador to Ghana. That's so cool. I know. Bob looks over at his son like he doesn't really know who this person is, which he doesn't.
How's your mom?
Do you know what mom's job is?
she's a secretary.
What did she do when you met her?
She was a secretary.
I've been airlifted out of foreign countries and I speak three languages because I have to. They'll feel sorry for me. An ADMISSIONS OFFICER signals to Robby who disappears through the door.
I know it's a year away but I'll have to have a car. A decent car. Nothing fancy, but it has to run. So I can get into Boston and New York. They have a great crew. That's what they told me. I said, crew of what? Ha, ha. They said, rowing. So...if I want to row... Bob quickly finishes a glass of cheap, white wine.
Robby, you know, I live... Where do I live? Maryland. I live in Maryland. Meaning you have residency there. In Maryland. For the University. Of Maryland. Robby liberally uses the hot sauce. Two LEBANESE MEN at another table nod in approval. Robby fires off Arabic.
Lebanese is like Vanilla. You want hot, try Pakistan. The men can't believe this kid speaks Arabic. Robby turns back to Bob and says what's really on his mind.
I just want a normal senior year. I want to live in a normal house. I want Cinemax and prom. You know what prom is like in Pakistan? Prom sucks in Pakistan. Bob looks at his kid with love, the real thing.
Robby, it's complicated. I may have really screwed up at work.
How?
I was supposed to keep my mouth shut and didn't. Robby is disappointed and angry.
What does Mom do again that we have to live in Islamabad?
She's a secretary. Robby turns back to the Arab men --
Both of my parents are professional liars. Bob and Robby are the only occidentals in the place.
Hey, how bad is it? Ouch. When a Volvo dealer says that. Okay, you're honorable decent guys. Farish clicks off the cell phone, turns to Bennett.
My wife and our narrow driveway.
You know, can't complain.
That's not good, kiddo. That's suffering quietly. Married? Kids? Bennett shakes his head. Farish looks him over like a good diagnostician inspecting a patient. Then --
There is no way a company like Killeen pulled off a deal like this without paying somebody off. Bennett shrugs. Looks at the Assts. They don't smile.
Why don't you tell me what you have so I can respond? Farish looks at his guys. They all choke back laughs.
I used to think something was wrong here. Now, I know something's wrong here. He stands, tall, imperious. Walks around his desk. Perches on the edge, towering over Bennett.
Either you don't find anything because you don't know how to look. Or you do and they carve you out and light you on fire.  That's gotta be the play, right? Bennett doesn't say anything. Farish picks up a file, scans it: Bennett's particulars therein.
You're so under-qualified it's laughable. Sydney Hewitt's new boy. How many of those have I seen? They're all gone; He's still Sydney Fucking Hewitt.
I guess you guys really have a handle on the angles. The U.S. Attorney team shares a moment at his expense.
Let's talk about our old friend the Holder Memoranda. In charging a corporation or --
Sentencing a company after a guilty plea, cooperation will be factored in, which includes waving the privileges afforded their attorneys.
 He was an easy grader.
Not anymore.
I took a bit of a temperature reading. The other associates seem to like you. That's not really a good sign.
I'm sorry, Sir. HIGH ANGLE - down to the fishbowl aspect of the court. Sydney has a very good serve. As they talk he wins three points in a row, Bennett lunging at the spinning ball.
Sir, I don't want to get ahead of myself, but Kazakhstan... You got capitalists with a K -- Point.
Six apiece.
You got banker gangsters, gangster bankers. The Federal prosecutor is a good man. Smart.
Inherited a ton of dough -- Point.
Seven.- Six. Already got his mind made up. Got his teeth in it like a little terrier. As Sydney is talking, he wins the point.
Eight - Six. Match point.
I think they've got someone inside the deal. Somebody they can squeeze.,
Like an informant?
Yes, Sir. Like an informant. Just my feeling based on their overconfidence. Sydney aces Bennett.
Match! He turns and holds out his hand.
If people in oil deals talked to U.S. Attorneys, there'd be no oil business. DEAN WHITING, 60's, congenial, but powerful in build, an ex-marine, an insider for forty years, wanders over.
Dean, you know Bennett Holiday.
Good to see you again, Sir.
We've been discussing the Connex- Killeen merger situation.
Will they get approval? Helluva large company if they do. I mean, client.
I don't know, Sir. The Tengiz field, Killeen's largest asset, is being looked at pretty heavily by the U.S. Attorney's office. Sydney Hewitt nods to another club member. Bennett turns to see DONALD FARISH III joining a far table.
Well, Bennett, as they say in the bible, there are many, many ways to light Europe.
I wish I could just believe he's floating around on a cloud or in the corner watching us. Julie wants Bryan to comfort her, but he doesn't.
That minister eulogizing our child made me sick. How do you eulogize a child? He was great at playing. He loved popsicles. She rolls into him and he holds her, but he's staring at the ceiling as the child's cries echo down the hallway.
 I want to look out the window. He holds up his arms for his father who lifts him. They walk to the window. Riley stops crying instantly, as children will, and shimmies out of his dad's arms. At the window, they stand together, silhouetted against the dark night and distant street light.
Nothing like the straight poop to wake 'em up on the 7th floor. And the Amiri brothers. Darn nice work. Darn nice. How're you finding everything? Must be a little slow-paced, a little dull?
Intelligence work isn't training seminars and little gold stars for attendance.
What do you think intelligence work is, Bob? They turn a corner which gives way to another institutional white corridor.
It's two people in a room and one of them is asking a favor that's a capital crime in every country on earth. A hanging crime. Another corner. Another white hallway.
No, Bob. It's assessing the information gathered from that favor and balancing it against all the other information gathered from all the other favors. Franks smiles. Opens a door to a white, windowless room.
Welcome, Bob. Good news. We have something for you, something we think you'll like, that makes use of your specific skill set.
Prince Nasir Al-Subaai.
His money's in a lot of dark corners, paying for weapons that could be used against the USA. Franks slides Bob a thick file on Prince Nasir Al-Subaai.
Paperwork on the polygraphs. Wire transfers to Qaeda fronts. Letters instructing his Water Ministry to employ Mohammed Sheik Agiza, the guy who has your missile.
He's traveling to Beirut. You have some experience in Beirut, don't you, Bob?
It's a great city. Everybody chuckles.
This is a bad guy and we need him off the table. Who knows, maybe you'll even find your blue-eyed Egyptian.
I gotta get going a little early, my daughter's soccer tournament. The Division chief passes behind Bob's chair --
Did you see my report on the missile? I reset guidance to blow ten feet off the ground --
Bob, you just don't get it. Nobody wants to hear about a missing missile, not right now. Besides, the ragheads'll never be able to figure out how it works. She leans down, taps the Nasir file, whispers.
This is top of The Director's list. Hit a walk-off home run and you'll get any desk you want.
How's Margaret? Divorced yet?
We're not getting divorced. Stan looks at him like he's kidding himself.
I'm telling you, Bobby my boy, number three is the charm.
What about this C.L.Z. - Committee to Liberate Iran?
Patriotic men donating their time, whose only goals are the full employment-and personal safety of every American. Bob glances sideways at him.
In that order.
My goal was always to own a bar in Macau, before Macau got ruined like everywhere else.
There's nowhere left in the world to own a real bar, Bobby my boy, but I'll tell you one thing, you could quit right now, I'll get you hired back tomorrow as a. private consultant. You'll be doing the exact same job, sitting in the exact same office, only at double the salary.
I'm not doing anything sitting in that office. That's the problem.  Bourbon rocks -- Bob glances up at the TV. ON TV: financial news, BRYAN WOODMAN in front of the trading floor at his company.
If on Monday Khatami refuses the I.A.E.A. inspectors, look for crude prices to spike yet again. Push into the television --
It's not like it's any secret Iran will refuse the snap inspections.  okay. Thank you, Rebecca. Bryan nods and the lights go off on Bryan. He stares --
Go home.
It was a stupid question, Henry.
The Prince's man called again.
I like consulting. No, I love it. Love it. And I'll say this for it, private business is efficient. There I said it. Fucking cliche. And the CIA is like what, a thirty billion a year business. so anybody wants to sell anything, a pencil, a computer, they gotta interface through a security clearance -- don't give me shit -- I got two kids in college and we're doing our kitchen.
Stan, I got a chance to go back. I want to go back. Is it safe for me?
You talking about with your wife or the wackos? Bob doesn't say anything. He looks away.
Clear it with Hezbollah... shit, I'm late to pick up Sue. Stan hits his remote lock and leaves Bob standing there. Wide shot of Bob alone in the mall lot gently sloping to IKEA cobalt blue in the distance.
Is the Caspian a lake or a sea?
Sea. Caspian Sea. Like seashore.
Looks like Lake Michigan. Size of Lake Michigan. The Red Sea opens into the Indian Ocean -- Jimmy Pope and OTHER HUNTERS drink and clean thirty ought sixes, their faces lit by firelight.
Caspian's surrounded. Like a pond. Caspian pond.
France and Russia want it to be a pond, that's for damn sure. The Caspian, I mean. In some court somewhere right now.
D. is for Dalton. I was on the other side of the Tengiz deal.
The other side?
El Presidente Nazerbayev's best pal in the whole world.
It's a beautiful field. Goddamn, is it a beautiful field. Danny hands a clean, checked rifle to Bennett.
I guarantee we'll let the air out of some tomorrow.
I believe in getting inside their personal space. So it's you and him and nothing else. That's eighteen yards for a tiger or rhino... Bennett and Jimmy ride in the back of a "wagon," a modified shooting platform pulled behind a Jeep.
Six billion barrels of oil, a billion of natural gas liquid, fourteen trillion cubic feet of
Man, I mean to tell you, by the end, you got blood of lions, baboons, rhinos on your dungarees. Bennett, wearing an orange vest over his casual clothes, seems uneasy. Jimmy yells down to his friend.
That's Kenya, Danny, not one of these turkey shoots.
Bred animals kill, too, Jimmy. Jimmy continues his thought to Bennett.
Fuck Connex. Fucking slant- drillers. Don't know why I ever sold 'em my company in the first place. Here, take your pick. He hands Bennett a thick catalogue. ANGLE ON CATALOGUE: Pages of animals you can shoot with pictures and description. ADDAX -- "this large African antelope is white with a gray masked face. It's horns corkscrew up making multiple twists in both sexes. Large males can weigh 275 lbs. Both males and females make handsome trophies.
The Tengiz is the Holy Grail. You get into that stream, nobody in your family will ever have to clean a toilet again.
I have a feeling this U.S. Attorney has a source.
Like somebody who didn't get into Tengiz and is pissed off about it.
Any idea who that might be? Jimmy looks at Bennett like he was just born.
How 'bout every other oil company in the world.  What's your fancy? Bennett randomly picks an animal from the list.
The Kudu. Good choice.  Floyd. Kudu. Bennett sees in the distance "Beater Boys," Mexican men in orange jackets, flushing quail for a party of hunters.
I'm not sure --
Jesus H. Christ. Kudu is rare. Get that gun up. Bennett lifts the rifle. THROUGH THE CROSS-HAIRS the Kudu is gigantic and unaware of the hunters.
He's got 52 inch horns. Maybe 54. The Kudu looks at Bennett. An uncomfortable beat --
Come on, son. He won't wait all day. Finally Bennett PULLS THE TRIGGER. The gun is LOUD. He stares, then slowly pulls back from the scope.
Lung shot. He's gonna run a bit.
My granddaddy was a wildcatter. Same with my daddy. That's how I got my start. Luck and hard work. Nobody handed me shit. Now, I got libraries and parks named after me. And I'll probably ruin the grand-kids. You wearing a wire, Bennett?
No.
Mind if I pat you down? Jimmy checks for a recording device. He's clean.
We all tell ourselves little stories, Bennett. Sometimes I'm the flame burning in the Jefferson Memorial. Other times I'm a guy with his nose pressed up against the windows of a whorehouse -- Suddenly there's a RUSTLING as a large animal passes somewhere close. Bennett freezes. Jimmy looks at him.
Boar.
What'd your daddy do, Bennett?
I don't know who my father is. On Bennett as Jimmy FIRES --
Southern Suburbs. Bob happily waves him on. Streets narrow. People stare.
How can you tell if you're talking to a Shiite or a Sunni Muslim.
I'm here to see Said Hashimi. They roughly frisk Bob.
Hashimi. Said Hashimi. They take his pen, remove his belt, check his passport: it's Canadian. Bob's picture. The name is SEYMOUR RISEN. They check his license: the name is SEYMOUR RISEN.
I have a good feeling about American people, Bob. A good people. A welcoming people. There are ten million Muslims in the U.S. I have over 300,000 followers in Detroit alone.
Thank you for this audience. I have a business proposal for Mussawi. One that benefits everyone. Hashimi nods magisterially.
Mussawi is an energetic young man.
I thought it would also be prudent to say, I have no interest in Hezbollah. This is business and it doesn't concern Hezbollah. In the distance a dog barks and chickens cluck. After a beat, Hashimi turns his rheumy eyes on Bob.
If what you say is true, consider yourself welcome in Lebanon. The generator comes on with a distant WHIR. The lights come on. A man crosses to the air-conditioner, reaches up and trips the circuit breaker, bringing it back to life.
I gotta ask you one question. Amin Shehab... car accident? Bob turns to look at MUSSAWI, 30's, closely-shaved bullet head, seemingly good-natured, a businessman, he speaks English with a New Jersey accent.
Yeah, sure. Only one of them was propelled by gas and the other by
The papers said heart attack. Bob nods pleasantly.
He saw an engine coming at him at 27,000 feet per second and his heart stopped. This settles a beat.
Rumors of Bob, but never Bob. It is Bob, right? What is it you tell people you do these days, Bob?
I'm between State Department and Defense. Bob surreptitiously looks around to see if Mussawi is alone. It's clear Bob makes him nervous as well.
Just me, buddy, as requested. Bob reaches inside his jacket. Mussawi reaches in his.
I'm getting some information, Jimmy.
My name is Mussawi. Bob hands a picture to Mussawi.
Okay, Jimmy. Mussawi glances down at the picture. It surprises him. ANGLE on the picture of PRINCE NASIR crossing a street. Bob has a small pad on which he scribbles a dollar figure. Mussawi glances at the number. He's impressed.
He's traveling to Beirut. It's dangerous to travel. He'll disappear.
I want you to drug him, put him in the front of a car and run a truck into it at fifty miles an hour.
It's good to have you back in town, Bob.
There's an arrow on the ceiling pointing the direction of Mecca.
Women are covered head-to-foot walking five feet behind the men.
Fine. I'm fine.
Your generosity is bigger than a mountain that shades us from the burning sun. I humbly ask for my citizenship expiry date to be extended. The Prince nods his assent. Across the deck Bryan sits with the PRINCESS AL-SUBAAI, 30, a Westernized young woman with dignity beyond her years. They watch as Nasir is served coffee by SERVANTS who make sure not to block his view of the financial news. The supplicants stare at the Princess.
They hate me being here, dressed like this. My husband tells them, she's a medical doctor, she'll examine your children, but only without a veil. A SECRETARY checks a list and ushers another supplicant forward.
The money given for my children's education was spent on farming and camels, but your benevolence is like the shade of palm trees in an oasis. Nasir nods then makes his way over. Bryan watches the princess smile. Her husband kisses her cheek. Nasir sits.
My father has ordered the Marbella estate to be razed.
There will be a park. To lose a first born son... Nasir doesn't know what to say.
We're very sorry for your loss.
A house main was run in the wrong place. The covering for the wiring had deteriorated. Bryan just stares at him.
You're very angry. I understand.
You can't possibly understand.
An ancestor of mine owned this bird's ancestor before Christ was born. The falcon catches an updraft and rises effortlessly.
Six more North Field blocks will be available for development. We would like to offer your firm the right to represent them.
Six blocks. Which phase?
Phase three.
Great. That's great. Seventy-five million dollars...
If I were your economic advisor I'd tell you it's not the dumbest thing you've ever done, but it'll probably be the dumbest thing you do today. Probably.
Okay, fine. I'll have the money forwarded to your firm immediately.
OK. So now that you're my economic advisor; tell me something I haven't heard. Bryan stares a beat, thinking.
Okay. You want an idea, here's an idea.
Your kingdom is here. The North Field is here. Europe is here. Because of trade restrictions and outdated alliances, you've been selling your gas for peanuts, loading it on ships, and waving as it sails away.  But, pretend for a second this is excess Iranian pipeline capacity. He lays the stick across the circles in the sand like an overland pipe running to Europe.
Here is your route. Overland. Through Iran. You commoditize it, you control it, you take it right to the front door of every home in Europe. Your profit just went up by a factor of three, possibly four. I think that's a pretty good idea. Overhead the falcons spiral higher and higher, chasing. each other in the sky. The rising MURMUR of AMENS --
And when Jesus had been Baptized, just as he came up from the water, suddenly the heavens were opened and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and alighting on him. And a voice from heaven said, "This is my Son, the Beloved, with whom I am well pleased." Let us pray: 0 God, open our hearts to your word and open your word to our hearts. Amen. AMENS. Danny Dalton, his WIFE and CHILDREN sit in good seats up front. Danny has a flag pin on his lapel.
This is the third in our four week series on Luke 2:52. And Jesus continued to grow in wisdom, stature, and in the love of God and those who knew him. The task is NOT getting more of God, but letting God get MORE of us. High above the pulpit, dead center of the auditorium is a giant American flag waving under the cross. Slowly the MURMURING RISE of different PRAYERS.
They will try to disguise the difference, to make Muslims who speak about religion appear to be fanatics or backward people.
They will tell us the dispute is over economic resources or military domination and if we believe that we play right into their hands, with only ourselves to blame. There is a remarkable contrast between the setting at the government barracks  and the Mosque (warm, rich). The teenagers wear serious expressions and try/fail to be respectful as they gorge.
No. The divide between human nature and modern life cannot be bridged by free trade. No. It cannot be cured with deregulation, privatization, openness or lower taxes. No. THE CLERIC, 40, is a serene man whose beard and glasses make him appear older than his age. Wasim watches as he talks in hypnotic cadence, making eye contact with each boy in turn.
The pain of living in the modern world will never be solved by a liberal society. The Cleric's sympathetic gaze falls on Wasim who is bruised with black eyes from his beating.
Liberal societies have failed. Christian theology has failed. The West has failed. He serves more lamb and vegetables to Wasim's plate. Wasim begins hungrily eating again.
The divine and the worldly are but a single concept and that concept is Koran. They walk past bee hives spaced across the desert. Farooq and Wasim and two OTHERS are with him.
No separation of religion and state - Koran. Instead of Kings legislating and slaves obeying - Koran. They stand in a corn field growing in the desert. The boys are impressed with themselves as only young, uneducated men can be when discussing philosophy and politics with a learned man.
The true confrontation is over Islam. They must eradicate Islam in order to rescue their own doctrine from extinction. True Islam will end up partial Islam. And partial Islam cannot exist. The cleric bends down to pull a weed.
Do you believe me when I tell you this? Wasim watches Farooq nod emphatically. They are full and The Cleric seems to know everything in the world. The Cleric surveys the boys with quiet exaltation, his tenderness and compassion begins to affect Wasim.
Now, who would like sweets before prayer?
We begin the process of empowering a new generation of Arabs with the skills and training necessary to succeed globally... Bryan claps dutifully. But he's on the phone, the cord dangling from ear to Blackberry which reads "work."
He invited me to come with him. I think he thinks he's somekindof reformer. He's got a nice jet. Okay, very nice. Hold on a sec -- He glances at the Blackberry screen. Another call -- JULIE HOME. He hits "IGNORE CALL."
Julie's fine with it.
our 13 point document is an agreement on principles calling for greater political freedom, good governance and transparency, advanced civil liberties and human rights, women's rights, and judicial reforms. Bryan's phone vibrates again - JULIE HOME. He turns the phone off.
However, unlike Washington's Greater Middle East Initiative, we respect each country's right to move at its own pace. APPLAUSE. One leader after another solemnly shake hands with Nasir as a photographer records the moment.
 You are a good man. I want to shake your hand. The bodyguards and police start shouting in Arabic.
Stop. Don't move -- WEATHERED MAN wears a serious expression heading straight for Nasir who turns and sees him --
You are good man. Like Sadat, you will shake my hand. Good man. The guards are SCREAMING. People start scattering -- The weathered man is reaching in his backpack --
Your highness, do you still want to meet and greet?
Everything as scheduled. Nasir looks out the window. He switches to English for Bryan but is speaking more to himself.
Respect the right to move at their own pace. Respect the right to do nothing is more like it. Except condemn Israel and strengthen the conservative religious movements.
American?
Canadian. Nasir motions for them to squeeze together for Bob. The gate closes. The lift creaks and begins to rise.
Don't see many Occidentals these days. Bob doesn't say anything.
It's too bad. Bob nods again. As the elevator moves higher more light floods in through the wire mesh. Bob's eyes meet Nasir's.
Bob glances over at Prince Nasir who is laughing at something in the Wall Street Journal.
Bob, what do you know about torture methods used by the Chinese on the Falun Gong? Number one method? What's your guess? Water dungeon? Did-you guess water dungeon? Impractical here. Bob's POV of Mussawi crossing to the generator. He uses the hand crank, which makes a grinding SOUND.
Number two method? Number two: twisting arm, putting face in feces. Not interested in two. Number three? Number three they call pulling nails from fingers. What do you think, Bob? Does Number three sound good to you? He lets go of the generator and picks up an evil-looking pair of pliers the size of bolt-cutters. Bob's POV over his own hands as Mussawi approaches.
The purpose is to get them to recant their beliefs. Mussawi circles behind Bob who tries to speak but his throat is too dry. Other MEN hold the chair steady.
What if I had to get you to' recant? That would be difficult, right? Because if you have no beliefs to recant, then what? Bob wiggles his hands as if they could escape. SOMEONE mashes Bob's right hand flat, splaying the fingers.
You're fucked is what. The pliers fix on the nail of his pinkie.
Bob, you're gonna give me the name of every person who has taken money from you. Bob stares at him. Says nothing. Slowly Mussawi pulls with the pliers. Bob's eyes half- close. Mussawi jerks away. There's a fingernail in the pliers. Mussawi retches.
Ugh. That's disgusting. Bob is dazed. They throw water in his face.
Come on, Bob. Help me out here. As water drips down Bob's face he holds his tongue out and drinks. His voice returns.
The name is Mussawi. TIGHT ON the pliers and nail as, ever so slowly, it is ripped from Bob's hand.
You fucking fuck, fucking fuck stupid fuck, what the fuck. This is war you fuck. You're a P.O.fuckingW. Give me the fucking names. From Bob's POV Mussawi loses his shit. He starts battering Bob, blood flying in ropes, the chair sliding across the floor. The men watch without expression.
I'm cutting his fucking head off. His feet approaching Bob. Then a door slamming open. And more feet, sandaled, in jalabas. Bob's POV of HASHIMI'S MEN entering the room. They SHOUT.
The said is very angry with you, Mussawi. The Said keeps his word. You're our guest, too, Mussawi.
I found this. wire transfer. Bennett snaps awake. He looks at the document.
Russian. I don't read Russian. Get it translated.
What are these?
Orphans. Stuff that doesn't make any sense. Bennett idly fingers a piece of paper - a receipt.
Oh, that one's kind of interesting. The Lily School.
A boarding school in Switzerland. Paid by wire transfer. Bennett scans the paper, then turns to the room.
Everybody stop what you're doing. They look up, bleary.
We're starting again. I want you to ignore any document that doesn't pertain to VIDAK LIMITED.
Everyone groans. Someone tosses a file in the air. Bennett goes to his desk, looks up a number, dials the number. A voice answers in RUSSIAN.
Hello... Hello. English?  Does anyone here speak Russian? The paralegals just stare. Someone in the back shouts --
Yeah... Fuck you.
Capitalism cannot exist without waste. On the walls pictures of Meshal as a child with Reagan, Qaddafi. As a teenager with Clinton, King Fahd, Mitterrand, Chernomyrdin.
We should write thank you notes to Mr. Whiting and. the USA for producing one quarter of the world's garbage and one quarter of the demand.
You're certainly welcome. Ha, ha. Our pleasure, really. Bonhomie galore. But Meshal is either wary or stupid or both. Reza points to a glass case where a huge leather- bound book is displayed.
Prince, that is a rare treasure.
Prince, is there anything we can do for you? The Prince thinks about this for a beat.
Americans are very happy to drill holes in other people's countries.
I know your brother, the foreign minister. Very bright. I know your father, too. He threw the second creepiest party I've ever been to in Washington. And from what I can tell you could probably use a bit of a cat's paw yourself. Second born son so beaten down by his family he can't even tell me what he wants when he's asked straight out, a grown-up baby who hates his brother and maybe wants to be king, maybe.
Well, Prince, are you a king? Can you tell me what you want? The Prince is at first taken aback, but then takes a beat to consider the offer. Whiting and the Middle-man wait.
I do have one small dream, a selfless dream. At my house I have a perfect one-third replica of Hyde Park. I have ducks and deck chairs from the real Hyde Park.
That already exists. It is called the Alhambra.
A replica in my country to inspire the people and a new Cordoba Valley from which to view it. It took the masters a hundred years, but I believe we can do it in ten.
The spider is a symbol of the sin of man. He bites the finger of Peter Parker who is now half dark and half light.
A real spider captures, then stings and immobilizes, then watches as the prey takes days to die.
They'd never show that. Suddenly they stop. MOHAMMED SHEIK AGIZA, the blue-eyed Egyptian, has been watching them. They are embarrassed.
Are we in trouble? MSA smiles a patient, charismatic, spooky smile. They already know each other.
Wasim is still a virgin. Wasim lightly shoves Farooq.
I'm a virgin, too.
We just received a dispatch from Damascus, eight minutes old. Mussawi's shopping a story that we sent Bob to Beirut to assassinate Prince Nasir. The Division Chief drops her cigarette in a coffee can.
Can we get this guy? I mean now - real time now.
Mussawi?
Yes. Mussawi.
Practical answer is no. Not before he goes into another mosque or newspaper and this story gains traction.
He's got Bob's name?
Not his real name. But he's shopping photos of them doing the deal, long lens. Photos of Bob being held. He's lucky he's alive.
The whole contact was a set-up. Mussawi apparently now works for Iran. First, he tortures our guy, then peddles the CIA connection. This is not good at all. After a moment to think, he spits this out, quickly:
Put some air between us and Bob. Bob has a long history of entrepreneurial operations. We haven't really had a handle on Bob for years. After nine one one, some people got too much leeway, let their emotions get the best of them. These are complex times. There's already an active investigation into Bob's actions in, help me out here -- They begin to spin the line together.
Tehran? The Amiri brothers job?
.We're trying to find out who, might have hired Bob for the Amiri brothers job. Could the same people be behind the Nasir job? A lot of people seem to want this Prince Nasir dead and Bob knows a lot of people.
Yes.
Yes. Bob is framed by two, not-bright CIA SECURITY OFFICERS.
Yes.
Of course I was aware. It's why I went after them.
what do you think?
In their helpful way they told me you were at one of six places but since you were a number and not a name did I happen to have that number. No. No is the answer to whether I have your number. She rests her hand on the railing of the bed. On the verge, she looks away, then back again.
They wouldn't give me any information. I didn't know how to find you, what I'd find... He pulls her close, careful of his bandaged hands.
I'm okay. I'm fine. Hey --
 They wouldn't tell me a thing. Not one thing. He holds her. As she becomes aware of the bandages on his hands, as her worry has been abating, anger has ineluctably filled in behind.
Where were you, Bob? He looks at her; he can't tell her the truth.
Were you back in Beirut? He just stares. This is infuriating.
Bob, please tell me where you were and tell me what happened. Please. Bob motions for her to come closer.
I saw these Shiites selling an Egyptian a missile. In Iran. I had a feeling about this guy, a Sunni nut-job, but I'm back here where I got on the wrong side of Terry, then an opportunity just happened to come up involving someone I worked with before, not a radical, I mean, he went to Rutgers, only now he flips, wants to cut my goddamn head off. And now they got me isolated away in here and they send these suits around asking me nonsense questions about bad people who are no longer with us, no longer with us on their goddamn orders. So you tell me what happened. You tell me, Margaret. Margaret doesn't know what to say so she says nothing.
Shit. Park Place. Shit -- Park Place with hotels. Bryan holds Park Place. The Arab Youth takes off his diamond encrusted Rolex and tosses it toward the bank.
Where are you from in the States?
El Segundo. No one has heard of it.
It's near Los Angeles.
Movie stars, convertibles?
El Segundo is like Saudi Arabia with a surf break. They hoot and protest. They don't believe him.
It's a desert town on an ocean controlled by an oil company. Tankers lined up offshore. There's this smell in the air. They pass out flyers to families moving in. This town is a quiet town where everyone works and our families are happy. If you have a problem with it or if you don't like the smell, you can leave.
If anyone works, it can't be Saudi Arabia. They all LAUGH LOUDLY, then the laughter fades as they realize Julie and Riley are in the hotel room. Julie eyes the money and the Asian girl in the corner.
He wanted to say good night to his father. Riley goes over and stiffly gives Bryan a hug.
she's in a meeting.
What about Fred?
He's in a meeting.
Bob carefully types with his damaged fingers.
Bob takes a sip of coffee. The wall clock reads: 10:10.
Fred. Fred turns and sees Bob, looks around uncomfortably.
What's going on, Fred?
 Honey, take the kids inside, would you? I'll be in in a sec. Bob and Fred watch the family go up the walk.
Bob, FBI's got it. Nothing I can do about it. You know that. It's a criminal investigation. Two men were killed. This bureaucratic defense sends Bob over the edge --
I was almost killed, Fred. My hands were mutilated. And they're asking me about the Amiri brothers? About Tehran?
You gotta understand. This wrecks careers. I shouldn't even be talking to you.
I typed in Prince Nasir Al-Subai and my computer gets seized.
I'm advising you to drop it.
Where did this Prince Nasir job come from? Why was I tortured. Why am I being investigated? Why was I sent? NEIGHBORS stare. Fred's kids look out the window.
Goodbye, Bob. Lifting up to see Bob isolated in the grid of identical, treeless houses.
Take this to Sydney Hewitt. Now.
Not to my recollection -- Bennett and Sydney square off against Tommy, Jimmy, their personal lawyers, one apiece.
Killeen Oil through Daniel Dalton and PetroKa Energy Consultants created assetless shell companies owned by the heirs of President Nazerbayev. This was. discussed...  At the Upstream Division Meeting held in January of 2003 in Sun Valley, Idaho?
I was at the meeting, but I don't focus on those kinds of details.
Wherein it was described that Killeen bore all financial risk, but President Nazerbayev's children, while attending The Lily School in Switzerland, were entitled to all of the profits - seventy million dollars. Tommy's personal lawyer leans in and whispers in his ear.
I attended the meeting but, as I said, I don't focus on those kinds of details.
Daniel Dalton Jr. and PetroKa Energy Consultants --
A firm retained by Killeen well prior to Connex's involvement --
Oh, fer Chrissakes, Tommy, we both got letters from the Grand Jury, it's not your own private little pity party --
A good faith purchaser is in good faith only if they didn't know about the problems at the time of the purchase --
This is the oil business we're talking about, right?
The lowliest little shareholder knows we deal with some of the most stank places on earth --
It is illegal to offer gifts, money or the promise of money or anything of value to influence foreign officials --
Oh, is it? I have personally seen a bill from this law firm to the government of Saudi Arabia for 36 million dollars. A one line bill for services rendered.
The business of Whiting, Sloan is not under discussion at this time.
Well, it oughta be. Danny's a good man. He's a friend of mine.
They've sued the Emir on the Isle of Jersey and frozen his money. He was in Bulgari and his credit card stopped working.
Some people, cousins of mine actually, sued my father in The Commonwealth alleging that he broke agreements to repay funds transferred from the State. Bryan follows Nasir. He glances at a photo of AGGRIEVED ARABS leaving court with DEAN WHITING looking protective.
A Mareva injunction?
Aggrieved Royals. Aggrieved about what? That he tried to cut their allowances from one hundred thousand a month to eighty. They pass wife, children, hangers-on. Room after room.
There are 300 years of corrupt layers in the middle-east and you have to break the ice. There must be structural changes. I tell them, with just one of your boats you could revolutionize Yemen, build desalinization plants. The man with the 200 foot boat needs a 250 foot boat. The man with 250. now needs 300. They dead-end in a small office. The Emir's JAPANESE SECRETARY half-rises.
I want to see my father. The secretary shakes his head. Nasir is furious.
My cousins aren't bright enough to be anything but finger-puppets. My brother has faith only in his own cunning. Then again, what should I expect, his mother was a whore. And he's hired American lawyers.
What are they thinking? They're thinking we're running out. We're running out and ninety percent of what's left is in the Middle East. So if you look at the whole progression from Versailles, through Suez, 1973, Gulf War One, Gulf War II, it's really shaping up as a fight to the death.
so what they're thinking is keep playing, keep buying your toys, keep spending fifty thousand dollars a night for your hotel room, but don't invest in your infrastructure, don't build a real economy, so when you finally wake up, they will have sucked you dry and you will have squandered the greatest natural resource in history. The Prince remains impassive. After a beat --
Come with me, please.
I studied at Oxford. I have a PHD from Georgetown. I want to create a parliament. I want to give women the right to vote. I want an independent Judiciary. I want, to start a new petroleum exchange in the Middle-east and cut the speculators out of the business. why are the major oil exchanges in New York and London anyway? I'll put all of our energy up for competitive bidding, I'll pipe through Iran to Europe like you proposed, I'll ship to China, anything that achieves efficiency and maximizes profits for my people, profits which I'll then use to rebuild my country.
That's great, that's exactly what you should do.
Exactly, except your President calls my father, says, I've got unemployment in Texas, Kansas, Washington State. One phone call later we're stealing out of our social programs to buy overpriced airplanes. We owed the Americans, but we've repaid that debt.
I accepted a Chinese bid, the highest bid. And suddenly I'm a terrorist. I'm a Godless communist. Nasir hopes takes the newspaper out of Bryan's hand.
Dean Whiting. Tight on: Dean Whiting with the aggrieved royals.
Who represents not only these aggrieved royals but also Connex Oil. They're pressuring my father to invalidate the Chinese contracts. They underestimate him. This is about his legacy to his people.
Stan, why did Mussawi double-cross me? Why does no one care that a Sunni radical named Mohammed Sheik Agiza has our missile? And why did they open a damage assessment on the Amiris? And on me. For doing my job?
Questions two and three seem obvious to me. Missiles are everywhere. Christ, Casey gave 'em out like party favors. This damage assessment, well, let's just say Nasir wasn't a home run. They're worried. About fall-out.
They're worried you may want to talk about it. But if you're already under investigation?
What about Mussawi?
Mussawi's a soldier. He's just like you. Bob stares at Stan who continues.
Maybe he found God. Maybe he was having a bad day. Maybe Americans shouldn't travel these days.
Did Prince Nasir hide Mohammed Sheik Agiza in the Water Ministry? Does he fund terrorist organizations?
Tell people what they want to hear and they have a better chance of believing you. People were paid to lie, coached on their polygraphs. Single sources spread through different intelligence agencies that don't communicate with each other. You know how it's done.
Who's worried about the Nasir job? Stan, who's worried about me talking? On the screen: a LOUD, ACTION BEAT. Stan leans over and
Some trust fund prosecutor, got off-message at Brown, thinks he's gonna run this up the flag pole, make a name for himself, maybe get elected some two-bit, no-name congressman from nowhere, with the result that Russia or China can suddenly start having, at our expense, all the advantages we enjoy here. No, I tell you. No.
Corruption charges. Corruption? Corruption ain't nothing more than government intrusion into market efficiencies in the form of regulation. That's Milton Friedman. He got a goddamn Nobel prize. We have laws against it precisely so we can get away with it. Corruption is our protection. Corruption is what keeps us safe and warm. Corruption is why you and I are here in the white-hot center of things instead of fighting each other for scraps of meat out there in the streets.
You broke the law, Mr. Dalton.
Oh, who gives a shit!
You have 37 million dollars hidden away and the only question I can see of any relevance is whether you'll get to keep any of it. The two men are tiny against the architecture, the nation's capitol going on with it's day around them.
How'd it go? Think you'll get invited on any more hunting trips?
He has kids. He's got a wife.
He broke the law. Sydney holds out a golden envelope to Bennett.
Mr. Janus himself wanted me to extend an invitation to oilman of the Year. He's being honored so it should be a nice weekend. Relax. Get a massage. Congratulations. Perhaps the slightest flicker of distaste crosses Bennett's face. On the reverse the Capitol Building is so close you could reach out and touch it.
I am tired.
Who will be Emir? The Emir looks away, then back at Prince Nasir.
Your brother. Prince Nasir looks from his father to brother and back.
I would ask you to remain as Foreign Minister. Prince Meshal sticks out his hand. Nasir ignores it and speaks to his father.
You cannot do this. He is barely qualified to run a brothel much less a country.
I cannot do that.
Sure, it looks like just hanging around in a hotel but that's how these people do business. It's world historical stage time. With the delivery deals we can make in Europe, transport through Iran, this guy might be able to revolutionize not just his country, but the whole region.
His dad's about to keel over and Prince Nasir could be like Mossadegh in Iran in 1952, with a real democracy springing up organically. I mean if we could just be a part of one of these countries getting a Parliament, helping them find efficiency, showing them how real incentivized capitalism can do its job --
Stop it! Look at me. The fountain shoots up and cascades down. Riley leans toward the water and for a second his feet lift up. Bryan starts up, but then Riley is playing again.
Julie, the little trading company I work for is now the chief economic advisor to Prince Nasir. Do you know what this means? It's like someone put a giant ATM on our front lawn.
Here's a question: how do you think it looks to profit off the death of your six year-old? This gets through, but then --
Fuck you. I changed the diapers and put cream on rashes and gave bottles in the night and went to doctor's check-ups and worried about percentiles... I did everything right. I did everything right. They look at each other and, for a second, it seems he may melt and hold her, but he doesn't and it's cruel.
Bryan, we're going back to America.
Good.
Hello, is this Mr. Why-Teeng? This is HomeTech Security. He reaches for the bedside light and snaps it on. Mrs. Whiting is a lump on the far side of the bed.
This is Mr. Whiting.
We're showing a motion sensor failure in your downstairs study.
Yes. Whiting glances at the wall readout on his alarm -- DOWNSTAIRS STUDY flashing.
Like I said we're getting a failure message. You want me to stay on the phone with you while you walk around or send a car? Whiting reaches under his bed and pulls a gun box. He flips the combination. Three pistols. He selects the largest and switches off the light.
I'll walk around.
How're we doing, Mr. Why-Teeng? It's secure. He tries another one. It's secure.
Did you leave it unlocked?
Send a car, you imbecile. He looks at the alcove and closet. Just then, the desk phone RINGS, startling him. The phone rings and rings. on the wall behind Whiting's head are beautifully framed photos with Kissinger, Clinton, King Fahd. Rack focus off Whiting and slowly ZOOM to...
You were in Beirut in '84.
I lost friends there as I'm sure you did.
I didn't used to need to know. A Grand Slam Breakfast is set in front of Bob.
In this town, you're innocent until you're investigated. Bob looks up and squints at the waitress' name-tag.
Bacon looks perfect, Deborah. Bob puts syrup on the pancakes. Eats a piece of bacon.
Innocent until investigated. That's nice. It has a nice ring to it. I bet you've worn some miles on little sayings like that. Very wise, gives the listener the sense of law being written as it's spoken.
If anything happens to me or my family, an accident, an accusation, anything, then first your son will disappear, his body will never be found. Then your wife. Her body will never be found either. This is guaranteed. Then, whatever is the most dangerous thing you do in your life, it might be flying in a small plane, it might be walking to the bank, you will be killed.
Beirut rules, Mr. Baer? Whiting loves the game. Bob looks tired, maybe a little sad.
I've made decisions that resulted in deaths, but I never lost a nights sleep. Never. I killed people, but I always had about 500 pages of U.S. law behind me, law that I believed in, and that was good enough.
You still do, Mr. Baer. You still do. Bob stares at him.
I want my passports back.
Bennett, hey. Come on. Take a ride with me. Bennett keeps jogging.
Bennett, I know you know about the crime fraud exception to attorney client privilege?
I do, Don. Very well.
Then, you also know your client is into some shady stuff and it's starting to look like you could be involved in hiding the true nature of the transactions. Bennett stops. Farish's car stops. Bennett is panting.
That's quite a statement, Don.
One word. Dalton.
Danny Dalton?
Defrauded the Government of Kazakhstan of funds to which it was entitled, defrauded the people of Kazakhstan of the right to the honest services of their elected and appointed officials. Seven years, does three, maybe two point seven, on your recommendation. out the window the bad neighborhood is giving way back to the developing neighborhood where Bennett lives.
And let me guess: this was a solo act, without the knowledge of Connex or Killeen Oil, of Mr. Lee Janus or Jimmy Pope.
Dalton's a bit of a rogue, it's true.
And he'll have a nice little trust fund waiting when he gets out.
Not so little, I imagine.
I'm sorry, Bennett. I don't think Dalton's enough.
 What are you doing?
The question is what are you doing?
Really. Well, I'll tell you what I'm not doing: I'm not running a shelter. You going back to work? No answer.
What happened at your job anyway? Another jerk? Another white asshole? What? You think you get where I've gotten and there are less of them? You think I don't want a fucking drink? You have no idea what I'm doing, what is actually going on with me. The only way you can change this shit, all this shit, is from the inside. I'm trying to get inside. Which a fucking loser like you will never understand. Bennett Sr. puts down, his paper, stubs out his cigarette and starts for the door.
Good. The door shuts behind his dad --
 I love this country. It's a great country, if you're not a quitter.
Dalton's not enough. So they will sit on him until he explains the how and why and the who, and they will be forced to unravel this merger. Jimmy turns from the grill.
I'd be real careful. You dig a three foot hole, you'll find one body, but you dig a six foot hole and you might find twenty.
Dalton's not enough.
We use one quarter of the oil in the world, Bennett. Your house is light and warm and my house is light and warm, but what if it was that way half the week, or none of the week. Hell, China's economy ain't growing as fast as it could because they can't get all the oil they need. I'm damn proud of that fact. Bennett gives him nothing. A beat.
What if it involved someone at your firm? Someone way the hell above you. We'd have to have an understanding.
If he's as big as you say then when he goes down the merger will be approved. Despite himself, Jimmy is impressed --
Just like that.
We're looking for the illusion of due-diligence. Two criminal acts successfully prosecuted gives us that illusion. Jimmy hands Bennett a plate of ribs and smiles.
Call me Jimmy.
I wish for everyone who hears this to fear God and to follow God and his prophets. When I die I want the people who inherit my possessions to do the following: A group of twenty or thirty BOYS, including Wasim and Farooq, watch the video in a makeshift shed.
One: the people who prepare my body should be good Muslims so this will remind me of God and his forgiveness. Two: I don't want anyone to rip their clothes or slap their faces because this is an ignorant thing to do. Mohammed Sheik Agiza watches the boys watch the video.
Three: I don't want a pregnant woman to come and say good bye to me because I don't approve it.
The questioning means that you have faith and makes it stronger
That's a lot of shit, I think. Farooq looks around to see if anyone is listening.
We'll get to intervene in the affairs of family members. We'll be able to help them with whatever they need.
Twenty seven tribes in my country and we all hate each other. My father arrested the malcontents. He crushed the religious zealots. Try reasoning with people who have one foot in the afterlife, he said, as he leveled village after village. Another angle and Bryan is approaching. Behind him is the desert house made mainly of tents and sails. DIGNITARIES wait on the deck and watch Nasir.
You know what place my children love most on earth? My children love Colorado. I could easily live in Colorado while my brother presides over a civil war. I could be very comfortable. Bryan watches Nasir.
I don't see you moving to Colorado.
For centuries Islam has been ruled by people with no respect for law, monopolies handed out for the things that people want, commerce stifled, young people unable to find jobs, critics jailed or put to death, women are second-class
He is interrupted by a BEDOUIN LEADER.
Tomorrow is the coronation. Your brother has the support of the United States. And 10,000 of their troops are stationed in our country.
This is true. My father is ill and weak and unwilling to fight the Americans. But others are willing. And when a country has five percent of the world's population but does fifty percent of its military spending, then the persuasive powers of that country are on the decline. The crowd is unmoved. Rallying the men will not be easy.
If I told you I knew of something that was going to happen to someone and that I felt I had to try and stop it even though it will probably cost me my job, what would you say? She really looks at him.
You can't tell me any more? No, of course not. She looks away. Outside the window a huge plane is pulling away from the gate.
I want you to do what you think is right.
I wanted to be on a bobsled in the Olympics. I wanted to drive. That was my dream. The men have no idea what he's talking about. He sees Wasim walking toward him.
Wasim! Bobsled!  Wasim knows what a bobsled is.
Can I borrow bus fare, papa?
Wasim, tell them about the bobsled.
It's a little car that goes down a track of ice and snow. Saleem pulls some change from his pocket and hands it to his son.
Oh, how snow sparkles, the crunch of it under your feet, the quiet and calm it brings -- Wasim suddenly hugs his father who is surprised but hugs him back. Then Wasim walks away.
Just heard from Tampa, the J-STARS are tracking and we should have an image from the Predator in a few seconds.
Great. He eats some chips, offers some to another guy.
Is it night there still?
Morning.
He's a visionary, like Faisal or Attaturk, and the people love him. By Monday, he'll be running the country. The Chinese seem unconvinced. Finally, the tent opens and the leaders file out. Prince Nasir addresses the crowd.
The Middle-East and the Arab people have seen empires come and go in six millennia. The Pax Romana, the Pax Ottomanica, the Pax Brittanica, were nothing more than invasions and occupations that ended... The Pax Americana will end, too. His wife and daughters proudly watch.
We have endless patience for history, but a man starving to death while sitting on a chair made of gold can no longer afford to be patient. The time for democratic, Arab self- determination has arrived. The crowd CHEERS. And as Prince Nasir, his family and supporters move toward the vehicles, find Nasir's BODYGUARD whispering into a cell phone --
Silver Hummer --
Native MUSICIANS entertain a small crowd of HARD HATS, local OFFICIALS and visiting DIGNITARIES. Someone BREAKS A BOTTLE across a huge colored pipe. The CHIEF ENGINEER signals. He throws a huge lever -- A POWERFUL WHISPER builds, hurtling through the pipes toward them and past them to the LNG CARRIER, a thousand- foot-long tanker, docked alongside.
His wife'll be there. Pat. Butter wouldn't melt in her mouth. The elevator TONES on every floor.
This is good. You done good. The watch the floors light up.
Sydney, how are you? And you must be Mr. Holiday? she shakes his hand. Gives Sydney both cheeks. They cross the large suite, one wall of which is floor-to-ceiling windows giving a dazzling view of mid-town Manhattan.
Syd! Bennett! Lee Janus! How're we doing? Janus is standing with his hand out --
Those number crunchers can get a little over-zealous, can't they, but Christ, when we write the GAAP rules like some kind of abstract painting. Stare at that liability hard enough and before long it'll turn into an asset.
The room lets out soft YEAHS as the image shifts, finding a distant highway cutting through it.
Image from Predator. Seven miles up. Let's go in. God, I love the UAV's.
What?
Unmanned Aerial Vehicles. I love 'em.
And it's quiet, right?
Baby cruises at eighty knots, about as audible as the clouds.
The lawyers are saying, hey, if you can't trust a Big Five accounting firm. And the accountants are saying, hey, we're not lawyers. Legal didn't understand. Accounting didn't understand. Nobody understood anything. The regulatory bodies had to scratch their heads for a minute that nobody at Connex or Killeen was at fault, but this merger is so balance-positive for American consumers that ultimately Justice wants it, the Federal court wants it. Everybody wants it. Our real client is US, the American people, and we're building our presence in Kazakhstan, so we had to give them a little something meaningful and they got out of our way. Mr. Janus glances at the TV where a pro golfer sinks a long, undulating putt.
Something besides Dalton?
Unfortunately, yes. And the best option seemed to be a secret deal for excess Iranian pipeline capacity that I uncovered during the diligence, a side deal benefiting the lead lawyer involved in the Connex-Killeen merger approval process. A slow dawning on Sydney's face --
What do you think you're doing?
Of course, it's illegal for an American to control these rights --
Stop. Right. Now. Bennett and Mr. Janus look at Sydney.
Is there something you want to tell me, Syd?
What are we looking at, folks?
We'll get there. They find a lone car traveling like an ant in the road.
I gotta do some traveling. I've never even gotten out of the USA.
Before grad school, I am definitely getting down to Mexico. The image tightens. It's an SUV seen from heaven.
The latest vacuum seal protection and workers trained in the Taiwan and the United States of America. MEN in blue jumpsuits watch the needle lift in the sky.
Each container holds over 20 million U.S. dollars of fuel, that's 100 million in total, quite a haul... A wide of the beautiful harbor. Fire boats spray water. And far away, a FLOTILLA of native fishing boats, dhows and sambuks and boums, makes its way out to sea.
In our line of work, the guy with the documents is usually the guy who stole the documents.
Finesse. Strategize. Advise. But don't own. Your words.
You aren't going to hurt me, Bennett. You'll wash out of the private sector. Fact, you're already gone. You'll end up working public defender cases. You'll make 1/50th the money. You could have been on the boards of Fortune Five Hundred companies. You could have been an advisor to Presidents. You could have helped us win like Romans instead of sitting on the sidelines hoping we don't turn into Visigoths.
You ungrateful, pissant, nobody. FBI restrains Sydney. Pat looks up from her needlepoint.
A piece of advice Syd, one attorney to another... Bennett leans close --
Don. Not the perp walk, Don -- Farish nods as if to acknowledge they're barely out of round one. And they begin leading Sydney out. Across the room, silhouetted by the windows, Mrs. Janus helps Mr. Janus slip on his tux jacket. They see Bennett standing awkwardly in the middle of the room. Pat extends her hand for him to join them.
I'm a straight shooter, Bennett. I think it was Trollope who said the best capitalist is someone who's greedy and honest. We can't forget that second part.
It was Trollope, honey.
We're creating a lot of jobs this quarter, Bennett, a lot of jobs. We're building a business and that's what America's all about.
Silver Hummer, silver Hummer where are you silver Hummer? ON THE MONITOR the image tightens, zooming in on the silver roof of Nasir's Hummer. It locks -- Relief on the faces of Bureau Chiefs and technicians.
There's a phrase. You know what I mean. What's the phrase? Target
Target acquisition. ON THE MONITOR the silver roof unmoving in the desert.
Right. Target acquisition. That's what we got here.
You guys should ride together. Nasir and Bryan exchange a glance then Nasir helps his wife into the vehicle. Bryan hands the baby up to them.
I would like to say, in making our selection of the recipient of this award, John Brown can't win every year. It would be like Formula One with Schumacher and Ferrari winning over and over. And I don't need to tell you whose fuel they're using. Faces in the crowd, eating and laughing --
This is not to crown a career. You're a young man and, unlike me, have many years of toil ahead of you. This year's oilman of the Year, Mr. Leland Janus of Connex- Killeen. The crowd gives LELAND "LEE" JANUS a standing ovation as he walks to the podium. All the big oil companies have tables. Bennett Holiday is next to Dean Whiting. Mr. Janus shakes hands with Sir David and accepts an engraved crystal oil derrick.
Thank you, Sir David. Thank you.
It's not a secret vote, so we can see who is voting for themselves. It's all right to vote for yourself. I did not vote for myself. The rapt faces of oil men listening to an oil man.
I voted this year, as I do every year, for Ali Naimi, the Saudi Oil Minister, who has done more for shareholder value than all of us combined. Laughter as a smiling SAUDI accepts a round of applause.
And that is certainly not a criticism of any of us in this room. My father told me when I was young, never criticize a man until you have walked a mile in his shoes. This is something I've tried to live by, because, if you do criticize, you're already a mile away and you've got his shoes. LAUGHTER, people glancing... who knew he was so funny?
Somebody tell me what the hell is going on.
The plane is just really high. And there's delay on the video
How long?
I don't know. I can find out. I think from Yemen to here was like four or five seconds.
What's that other car?
It's okay. It's okay. Bob slowly. approaches Prince Nasir's vehicle. They stare at one another. Nasir lowers his window.
I remember you. You're the Canadian. Tight on Bob. He starts to speak --
I accept this award on behalf of the employees of Connex-Killeen, our people, the finest in the world...
I want to thank our strategic friends from around the globe who are here tonight. More APPLAUSE. Emir Meshal Al-Subaai gives a little wave to both sides of the room.
I hope I'm not giving away trade secrets when I say Liquefied Natural Gas truly is the fuel of the future. Mr. Janus raises his crystal derrick in a toast.
And to everyone else who helps make this the most exciting and important and profitable industry on earth. The crowd again begins CLAPPING for itself. Light catches the crystal oil derrick and refracts --
During the funeral I want everyone to be quiet. And I should be lying on my right side.
From the dust a new person will be created. Bryan looks through the rooms at his wife who has taken a few steps toward him. She hesitates --
.The next world is the true life. Bennett walks up the steps and pauses beside his father.
