Now a man  is ZOOMED IN on -- little of his actual face is visible because of his thick white hair, large bushy white mustache, dark glasses and slouch hat. The rest of him is encased in a knee-length raincoat. He wears gloves and is carrying a large, brown-paper-covered package by a wooden handle attached to the twine securing it. The box has been addressed in black felt marker -- "Everest Printing Corp., 826. Lafayette St." -- and appears quite heavy. But Green has the gait of a man. younger than he appears. As he turns and heads down a flight of stairs, CAMERA ZOOMS IN even more to the single word on a sign:
C'mon, kid -- out loud so's I can hear what you're doin'.
I'm checking the passengers getting on and off -- front and back -- okay, it's all clear -- I'm shut- ting the doors; -.rear section
 -- then the front section --
Now I 'm checking the indicator box to make sure that the doors are all locked -- okay. The train starts with a jerk.
Igo back out the window --
How come you wanna be a conductor, anyway? Don't you know the con- ductor's sittin' in the goddam hotseat?
What do you mean, Mr. Matson?
You're visible, for God's sake! Anything goes wrong -- anyone's got a gripe -- you're the one they see. Hell, in my twen'y-nine years o' stickin' my head out there I been slugged, spit on, hit by purses, fruit, rolled-up newspapers, baseball mitts -- an'.I been god- dam lucky! I never been puked on by a drunk like Charlie Boltzen was on the Parkchester line -- or stabbed in the neck like I heard one fella was on the Astoria BMT --
You take my advice, kid -- serve your six months an' then put in for Motorman. Watch it, we're cumin' in. Bud looks quickly off, sees the approaching station and hits his transmitter button.
No it ain't
Never say you're sorry, kid -- somebody'll come back here an' bust your goddam nose.
Yeah -- if I was you I'd start studyin' for that motorman's exam right now.
To tell you the.;truth, Mr. Matson, I have been. Want to hear some- thing?
'Cept at rush hour when you can push in another 20, at least. Honest to God, I. know personally of a case where this guy on a number 5 train dies of a heart attack at Union Square and he has t' wait until the Grand Concourse in the Bronx before enough people get off so's he can fall down.
Mr. D'Agostino who rode with me last week said that happened on a double -A train on the West Side.
Yeah? Who y' gonna believe? A wop or an American?
Stick with it, kid -- you're doin' great. See ya t'morrow. He crosses to the nearest door as the train decelerates. Bud activates. his mike and announces, waving to Matson as he does.
Grand Central Station -- change for the express. This is Grand Central.
The train stops, the doors open and Matson steps out, colliding with a very large man  who is in a hurry to get aboard. His face is adorned with a large, white, bushy mustache, dark glasses, a lot of white hair, a slouch hat and, covering the rest of him, a raincoat. He carries an outsized florist's box, big enough for several dozen- long-stemmed roses, under his. arm, and wears gloves.
What's your hurry, chief? We won't leave without you. Brown says nothing to Matson, does not look at him, does not even seem aware of their cohtact. Matson goes off into the crowd on the platform and Brown heads for the front of the car.
Your ass. The man looks around and surveys Grey.
What about it?
Move it. The man glances at Grey for a moment, then moves it. Grey opens the door and steps out onto the platform between the two cars.
Blue stands at the downtown end of the platform, near the number 10 placard, carrying a bulging canvas valpac in one hazed and a trombone case in the other. A rumbling sound is heard, building, until a train roars through on the northbound express track, its lights flashing between the pillars. In a moment it is gone and the sound dies. Now a young black,.dressed in the latest extravagant PIMP's fashions -- flaring double-knit trousers, three- inch heels, wide-lapeled jacket and white, extra-wide- brimmed hat, swaggers, loose-jointed, to a spot near Blue and waits, cool and relaxed. He becomes aware of Blue observing him.
What's wrong, dude -- ain't you .never seen a sunset.before? Blue-smiles softly and looks uptrack.
Hey -- how do you expect me to -- ? He stops, suddenly aware that Blue has removed a very large army automatic from his raincoat pocket and has placed the muzzle against his  head. Doyle jerks his head back, suddenly, banging it hard against the windowframe. Blue crooks his hand inside the window and now places the gun against the Motorman's cheek, directly under his right eye.
I'm taking your train.
Turn around -- I 've got some- thing to show you. Bud turns back, inside the car, then looks down.
Unlock your cab or. Doyle seems dazed, in a trance. Blue presses on the barrel of his gun, depressing Doyle's cheek.
Pay attention to me. Open your cab door or I '.11 kill you.
Come in and turn around -- slow. Brown, florist's box and all, has moved into the small cubicle. When Bud pulls his head in from outside they are very close.
Go back out the window and tell me what you see. Bud nods, licks his.dry lips and leans out, looking to the left, downtrack.
There's someone leaning against the head car.
Now Blue turns, picks up his valpac and trombone, enters the train and the doors close.
Get rid of your seat. Doyle springs to his feet and swats up the folding seat with a clatter.
Yes, sir!
Just take it easy. Now move over to the window -- and if you try to touch the mike pedal with your foot I'll shoot it off.
A sharp rapping at the door and Green opens it. Blue squeezes in, placing his bags atop Green's package. it is becoming very crowded in the cab as Blue again pockets his gun.
All right, Mr. Green?
A hundred percent.
Then get it started. Green moves over to face the controls. He stares down at them for a moment, then reaches with his left hand to the controller, his right to the brake handle. Pressing down firmly on the controller, he nudges it to the left.
Okay -- announce the next station. Bud presses the transmitter button.
His voice croaks then fails -- he can't finish. Brown prods him with his gun. Bud clears his throat, then tries again. I
Come on -- we're. taking a walk up front.
You say when, Mr. Blue.
Keep going --
You're still in switching. Why don't you peg it up to series? You're green all the way through.
We're in no hurry.
What happened?
She must've bucked.
You said you could drive this thing.
It wasn't mel
It's the train -- she bucks all the time -- especially in switching. She's a dog. Green glances quickly at Doyle and grins.
What's your name, motorman?
Denny Doyle, sir.
You ever been written up?
Yes, sir -- once.
What for?
Running a red signal. The trippers stopped us cold and I hadda climb down and reset 'em by hand but by that time Control knew I was lying dead. I never got written up since. How about you?
Twice. -- once on the Canarsie --
That's right, Mr. Green -- tell him all about yourself.
Yeah -- I'm taking the brake handle and the reverse key, Denny -- and I want your cutting key, too. He pulls the reverse key out of its receptacle and holds out his hand. Doyle fishes into his overalls, pulls out the large key and gives it to Green who puts the brake handle and the two bulky keys into his two raincoat pockets, then squeezes by Blue and the packages and goes out.
You'll be hearing from Command Center in a minute )r two but you'll ignore the call -- you won't answer -- is that perfectly clear?
Yes, sir.
Keep still!
Thanks, Mr. Grey.
 You got three seconds to live, conductor -- one -- two -- Bud whips the key from his pocket and hands it to Green, who unlocks the cab door they're standing next to and enters, closing the door after him.
What's he going to do?
You wouldn't want me to spoil the surprise.
Command Center calling Pelham One Two Three -- come in, please -- Doyle's foot moves toward the mike pedal and Blue kicks him hard in the ankle.
Owl I'm sorry -- Z couldn't help it -- it's automatic --
Pelham One Two Three, do you read me? Come in, Pelham One Two Three -- Doyle looks imploringly but Blue shakes his head. Finally:
Pelham One Two Three1 Where the fuck are emu? l
What's the goddam hurry?
I told you -- one of my towermen dropped his wedding ring-down the john.
Yeah, but what're we runnin' for?
How come that gate ain't locked?
Who's gonna steal a subway train?
Christ, it stinks down herel Where the hell are we goin'?
To the.Tower.
Tower? Then what're we goin' down Hey, slow up, will ya?
That's it up ahead -- those windows.
What kinda tower? They've come to the door of the Tower Room. They turn, go up some steps and disappear inside.
Jesus Christ, Caz, you picked a helluva day to be late --
You wanted a plumber down here, didn't you? Whose goddam wedding ring was it?
I'm sorry, Mr. Dolowicz -- it just slipped off.
What were you doin'r with your hand in the john, anyway?
. My hand-wasn't in the john, Mr. Dolowicz -- it was over the john.
What's the difference?  Go fish it out, will ya? As the Plumber heads off, Caz turns to Marino.
The classification's been open to women for only a month and already we're in the goddam toilet! (glancing at the
What the hell's that?
That's what I've been tryin' -to tell you, Caz -- a southbound local. He's laying down between 28th and 23rd.
What the hell for?
Dunno yet.
How long?
Couple-three minutes. Command Center's been trying to raise him but so far he don't answer the radio. Jesus, Caz -- why don't he answer the radio?
Take it easy, Marino -- there's lots o' reasons. Maybe he jumped a ball and hadda leave the cab to reset a tripper -- or a door got hung and he hadda go fix it. Any- thing more serious and he'd'a called in for a car knocker.
It's been too long, Caz --
Then maybe his radio's busted and the sonuvabitch is too lazy to climb down and use a telephone! I'm gonna write him up for.this, goddammit -- I'm gonna have his assn
Hey -- it's moving! Everyone wheels around to stare up at the Board.
For Jesus Christ sake! The dumb bastard's moving backwards!!
He's stopped again!
Stopped is better than backwards.
What's wrong with you?
I didn't know these things'd c o o backwards !
Come in, Pelham One Two Three for Chrissake come in -- I Blue opens the package, removing a second, identical automatic weapon. As he checks it out, a rapping sounds at the metal door and Blue opens it. Green squeezes in.
Any trouble, Mr.'Green?
Smooth as silk, Mr. Blue.
I unpacked your weapon. Get this thing moving -- we're run- ning almost two minutes behind. Picking up his submachine gun, and holding it vertically along his pants leg, Blue eases himself through the door and shuts it after him.
All eyes staring up at the Board .
She's moving again -- forward this time!
I got eyes, haven't I?
Well -- whatever it was, he's okay now, thank God.
-- The black, modishly-dressed Pimp, in his 30's, seen earlier on the station platform. -- A . plump. MOTHER, forty-ish, high-strung, the parent of the t':o Boys seen earlier play:.ng motorman. -- A Puerto Rican DELIVERY BOY, 20,-with acne, wearing a lumberman's wool jacket, a small hat, and carrying a large manila envelope. -- A black SECRETARY, 25, attractive, with a natural, and well-dressed, who's been reading a book.
-- A HIPPIE type, 24, with shoulder-length blond Jesus Christ hair and a beard to match, wearing a Navajo- patterned woolen poncho, a headband, leather sandals and a zonked-out expression. -- A black MAID, 50's, overweight, tired, wearing a wig and an old fur-collared coat, end carrying two Blooming- dale's shopping bags. -- A HOOKER, 32, white, flashy, dark-haired, wearing a short skirt, no bra and an Anzac-type hat. A W.A.S.P. type, 40's, short-hair, wearing a brown tweed jacket and a narrow tie. -- A black SALESMAN, 35, with a, sample case and an order book, wearing glasses. -- A woman WINO, a derelict of indeterminate age, with rolled down stockings, layered in ratty coats and sweaters, wearing wool gloves with the fingers out, missing most of her teeth, her hair stringy, her eyes red-rimmed, her complexion sallow, carrying a pint bottle in a paper bag, passed out, dead to the world. -- An OLD MAN, 70's, tiny and alert, dressed in an expen- sive but old-fashioned cashmere overcoat. -- TWO CO-EDS, 18 and 19, scrubbed, pretty, serious , carrying briefcases. -- A black FAG, 25, his hair straightened and pompadoured, his eyebrows plucked and redrawn, his figure trim, his clothes calculated to attract other men, his mouth con- stantly pouting, carrying a shoulder bag and listening to a transistor radio. In all, SIXTEEN -- seven men, two boys, seven women; ten white, five black and one Puerto Rican. Center-car, Blue addresses them. He holds his submachine gun in the crook of his arm, the barrel resting on his right hand.
You will all remain- seated. Anyone who tries to rise will be shot.
Oh my God What'd he say? What's going on? I don't believe it. 
And. you will remain silent! There will be no further warning -- any- one who moves or speaks without permission is going to be killed. There is immediate silence as he-looks around.
This weapon fires 450 rounds of .45 calibre ammunition per minute. In other words, if all of you de- cided to rush me simultaneously, not a single one ,of you would get any closer than you are right now. Is that understood? This news is met in stony, awe-struck, terrified silence. Except for the Pimp who smiles, seemingly relaxed.
I should'a know'd you was the main man, man.
He stopped again! The crazy, dumb-assed sonuvabitch stopped again!
Including Marino, Mrs. Jenkins and the other Towermen.
What's he doing now? He's half- way between stations.
A pure mental case. I'm gonna nail his pecker to the goddam wall for this!
(indicating Mrs.
Hey, Caz, take it easy, will you?
If I gotta watch my language just because they let a few broads in' I'm gonna quit! How the hell. can you run a goddam railroad without swearing?!
Grand Central Tower -- this is the Desk Trainmaster -- who the fuck's in charge down there? Caz glances at Mrs. Jenkins, grins, and leans over a desk to flip on a mike.
It's me, Frank --CazDolowicz. We're watchingitonthe Board.
What good's watching it, for Chris- sake? We got trains piling up behind it. Get some goddam super- vision down there!
On my way, Frank.
Everybody in this half of the car -- that's from here on back -- move up front, please. Everybody.  Right now -- upi
As the. six or seven passengers in the rear section rise and move forward, the cab door opens and Doyle comes out, i followed by Green who is covering him with his gun.
Get going, Mr. Green. Green nods and goes to the front, uses a key to slide open the storm door, steps out and closes it again, then jumps down onto the tracks.
Motorman -- come here.
Yes, sir?
I want you to walk uptrack and collect all the passengers in the nine cars we out loose, and lead them back to the 28th St. Station -- is that clear?
People hate getting off in the middle of a tunnel --
Just do as you're told: The Hooker raises her hand.
Can I go with them, please? I've got this important appointment, you see, and --
No. No one else can leave.
I'm sure you wouldn't mind if the children were to. go --
Nobody leaves!
 Excuse me, mister -- don't you think we should be let in on what's happening?
Yes. What's happening is that you're all being held by four dangerous men with machine guns.
The fluorescent lights suddenly go out and the emergency, incandescent bulbs immediately go on, thereby diminishing the brightness in the car by half. There's a general stirring among the Passengers as they look around them, their alarm peaking again.
Please be quiet -- nothing's going to happen if you do as you're told. Get going, Motorman. As Doyle leaves at one end of the train, Green reappears at the other.
All right, Mr. Green?
All power's out between 14th and 33rd Streets on all four tracks, local and express, north- and southbound. r
I still see some tunnel lights.
Emergency. They're on A.C. like the signals.
. Stay here -- and leave the cab door open so you can hear the radio. Blue returns to the center of the car but CAMERA stays on Green as he opens the cab door.
Coirmand Center to Pelham one two Three -- did you cut the power down there? -- without calling Power
A uniformed TRANSIT COP sits behind the desk, watching him. Finally: an elevator door opens and a smart, efficient SECRETARY emerges, followed by FOUR JAPANESE in business suits.
Ah, Lieut. Prescott -- it was nice of you to leave your duties long enough to show our distinguished guests around the facilities. May I present Mr. Yashimura, Mr. Mat- sumoto, Mr. Tomashita, and Mr.
The small-framed.Orientals bow in turn.
-- who are all Directors of the Tokyo Metropolitan Subway System. Gentlemen, this is Lieut. Clive Prescott of our own Transit Authority Police.
A pleasure, gentlemen.
When you're through the Chairman would like to say goodbye per- sonally so send them up to thirteen, will you?
I sure will. She smiles at the Japanese and walks back to the elevators, pressing the UP button. Prescott looks at the four men for a moment, uncertainly, then goes after the Secretary and speaks to her in low tones.
eak English, don't they?
We're not sure.
You're not.
We've been proceeding on the assumption that they do.
You have. The elevator door opens and-she steps in, smiling sweetly.
Sayonara. The door closes. Prescott shrugs, then turns and smiles at the visitors. They smile back. He takes a deep breath, then begins.
The New York City Subway System is the largest'in the world, with 237 miles of track and seven thousand cars that carry over a billion and a third passengers every year, making it also the busiest railroad in,the world. I can see that this last fact surprises you. The Japanese look anything but surprised. Prescott goes on, resolutely.
Yes. Well- Grand Central is the busiest station passenger-wise -- train-wise, it's West 4th St. on the I.N.D. line. Now, if you'll step this way, gentlemen - They step no way at all. Prescott gestures broadly.
This way -- He hurries ahead of them to open the door and hold it for them as they finally follow.
We are entering the headquarters of the Transit Police, occupying the entire second floor of this building. We call it the Nerve Center.
The Status Board pinpoints the disposition of every Transit Authority policeman presently in the field. Things are usually jumping pretty good in here. CAMERA begins to ZOOM BACK, revealing the scene: a large room, cut. up by glass dividers into a maze of squares and rectangles manned by uniformed T.A. POLICEMEN, sitting at desks with telephone consoles. The place is absolutely dead -- some reading, some eating, some sleeping.
We have one of our own T.A. cops on every station and every train in the entire system between the hours of eight P.M. and four A.M. Since we instituted this watch, we've out crime in the subways by about 60%.
CAP4ERA has finished its ZOOM and now PANS to include Prescott and his four Japanese.
I'm sure you have your own share of crime on the Tokyo subway, right? They merely stare at Prescott and smile.
Right. He.clears his throat, loosens his tie and looks around for help.
Uh -- follow me, gentlemen,
He starts off through the room, the Japanese following.
These are the assignment desks, one for each of the three lines -- the I.R.T., the B.M.T. and the I.N.D. -- and.over here, the Oper- ations Lieutenant, Sol Garber. Prescott has stopped beside a desk. GARBER, 40, stocky, dour, with a dark stubble that requires shaving twice a day, is absorbed reading the Village Voice.
Uh -- Sol -- I'd like you to meet some friends of the Chairman. Garber looks up over his paper for a moment.
Good friends of the Chairman.
Hi ya.
They're -- uh -- directors of the Tokyo Subway.
I do say. I -- uh -- told them things are usually jumping. like crazy in here.
Jumping. Right.
Tell them about some of the excit- ing things that have been happening lately, Sol --
Yeah, well -- we had a bomb scare in the Bronx yesterday -- but it turned out to be a cantaloupe. He and Prescott look at the Japanese. Nothing.
How about another one, Sol?
Well -- uh -- Thursday there were three unrelated knife fights in a single half hour -- two dead and three wounded --
I'm busy, Clive, okay? He goes back to his newspaper as Prescott leads his four charges away.
In the course of a normal week the T.A. Police have to deal with such crimes as robbery, assault, murder, drunkenness, injury, illness, vandalism, abusiveness, sexual molestation and exhibitionism.
We carry firearms, of course -- off duty as well as on
Hey! These are subway tokens:
When did the power go?
Who wants to know?
The Supervisor of the Grand Central Tower wants to know!
Oh -- sure -- it went a 'couple of minutes ago. He starts off.
What happened down there -- a man under?
Who wants to know?
What now, for Chripsake?
What time've you got, Mr. Green?
Correct. Time to start. Any- thing you want to say first?
Pelham One Two Three -- do you read me now -- ?
-- Come in, Pelham One Two Three -- if you can receive and not transmit please use a phone -- CA14FRA now ZOOMS IN on Correll, the desk trainmaster, seated at a steel desk, talking over a two-way radio/ telephone console.
-- Come in, Pelham One Two Three --  Power Central -- have you restored Lex 14-33 yet?
Not yet, Command Center. Still working.
Grand Central Tourer -- any movement on Pelham One Two Three?
Still lying dead, Command Center.
Maintenance -- how about a report, for Chrissake?
I On what, Command Center?
How many trains we got laying down, you dumb bastard? CAMERA PANS to pick up Prescott as he leads his four Japanese through the room, moving and speaking rapidly.
Each train is identified by the name of its terminus and the time of its departure --thus, an express leaving Woodlawn at 6:30 P.M. would be Woodlawn Six Three Oh, while on its return trip its new destination might be Flathush Eight Two Five. I hope you're memorizing all this junk -- I'm going to ask questions later. He has said this within earshot of a DISPATCHER who now reacts.
Jesus, Prescott, have you lost your marbles or what?
Don't worry -- they don't under- stand a word.  Come on, you dummies -- get the lead out l
Pelham One Two Three -- come in, Pelham One Two Three -- Goddanmit, why don't you answer your fucking radio?!
There he is, gentlemen -- Train- master Frank Correll, the Lord Byron of the New York Subway System. Observe the way smoke and fire shoot out of his ears.
Don't bug me, Prescott -- I've got trouble here.
What's the matter, Frank?
Oh, nothing much -- a train's down, its radio's dead, the power.'s off and it's dumped its load. Other than that everything's ginger peachy.
No idea what's wrong?
I told you -- his goddam radio's
Pelham One Two Three to Command Center -- this is Pelham One Two Three -- do you read me -- ?
There he is -- !  .I read you, you sonuvabitch -- where.the hell have you been? What are you trying,to do, screw up this entire railroad single- handedly? -- Come in, you bastard, and start explaining -- and you'd better make it good! Pelham One Two Three-to Command Center -- your train has been taken -- repeat, your train has been
Correll looks at Prescott in astonishment, then wheels to shout at the room.
Shut up in here!! I said shut it--- everybody!!
as EVERYONE in the room turns to look at Correll.
Pelham One Two Three -- what the fuck do you mean the train's been taken?! Are you the Motorman? Negative.
Then who the hell are you? No one's authorized to be in that cab except the goddam motorman! Identify yourself! Listen to me, Trainmaster -- your train has been hijacked by a group of heavily-armed men --
It what?! -- We are holding sixteen passengers and the Conductor hostage in the first car and we will not hesitate to kill any or all of them if you do not do precisely as we say. Do I make myself clear, Trainmaster?
You're out of your fucking mind! Be that as it may, are you ready to take down our list of demands?
Why would anybody want to hijack a goddam subway train for?
Hit your six button, will you, Frank? I want T.A. Police in on this.
Holy Christ, I forgot!
It is all right, Lieut. Prescott -- I'm sure.we can find it by our- selves.
And. most exciting, too. They all bow low and file out. Prescott watches them in a near state of shock.
- Since this is my last day on the job, I might as well make it a good one. He leans over Correll and, pushing a button, speaks into the mike.
Prescott to Garber --
This is Garber --
Sol -- plug everything you've got into the I.R.T. Trainmaster's circuit, will you? -- an all-unit stand-by, on the d-)uble. And call in the city cops -- put it on a 9-11 so their computer gets it.
What's up, Clive?
You won't believe it.
You know me -- I'll believe any- thing.
A train's been hijacked.
What do you want, Mr. Green?
How's it going?
All right.
Did you tell them?
Part of it.
What are they doing now?
Recovering. They sounded a little upsat.
Go back outside -- I don't want Mr. Brown and Mr. Grey left alone with the passengers any longer than we have to.
Don't you trust them?
I trust Mr. Brown -- Mr. Grey's another matter. He's a cocky little pain in the ass who could turn out to be real trouble if we don't watch him.
Where'd you find him, anyway?
He was recommended.
Pelham One Two Three, this is Command Center -- come in, Pelham One Two Three --
Go on -- (as Green goes; into the mike) This is Pelham One Two Three, Trainmaster -- are you ready to take down the list of our demands?
I'm listening, you shitheel -- what do you want?
Do you have a pencil?
Go on, goddammitii
To begin with it is important that you understand three things: One --
I read you, you goddam lunatic -- you'll never get away with this, you know -- Please inform-the Mayor that we demand one million dollars in cash for the release of the car and all of the hostages --
That'll be the day -- The time is now 2:13. The money must be in our hands no later than 3:13 -- one hour from now. If it is not, we will kill one hostage for every' minute you are late.
Keep dreaming, maniac -- Furthermore, if anyone attempts to interfere -- anyone --.in any way -- we will begin killing the hostages immediately. Confirm,
Look, I'm only the Trainmaster around here -- I don't know any- thing about contacting the goddam Mayor!
Hold on -- I've got one here now. He disconnects and turns to Prescott.
He's all yours, the sonuvabitch (as Prescott reaches for the mike) Not here, for Ch'rissake -- Take it over there! He points to another, empty desk. Prescott goes to it and sits, then punches in a line on the console and speaks into the mike.
Pelham One Two Three -- can you hear me?
This is Pelham. Identify your- self, please.
Lieut. Prescott of. the Transit Police. Identify yourself. I'm the man who stole your train.
There's no way you can get away with it -- you're underground, in a tunnel. Why do you concern yourself with that, Lieutenant? At precisely 3:13 we will begin executing the passengers. Don't you think you'd better contact the Mayor without wasting any more time? The moment you've done it report back to me for further instructions. Sign- ing off.
Sol -- did you get all that?
I only get your end but I could piece the rest of it together. Jesus, it's crazy!
What about the city cops?
They've got two cars from the 14th precinct on the way now.
Two cars -- you sure they can spare that many? What about our own men? We got anyone at 28th St.?
Just checking on that -- uh -- yeah, he's around there somewhere.
You'd better tell him to hold the fort -- it's liable to be a couple of hours before any city cops show up.
Will do, Clive. He disconnects, turns and shouts.
Sargent -- get me our guy at Lex 281
to a small group of irate citizens. He carries a radio on a strap over his shoulder.
I'm sorry, lady, I don't know how long the delay will be-- it's just a minor technical problem.
Anybody hurt?
How many killed?
Look -- everybody just calm down  Hold on -- He turns away and lifts the radio to his face.
Patrolman James --
This is Lieut. Garber in Opera- tions. Where are you now?
Twenty-eighth southbound. Every- thing's shut down, Lieutenant -- what's going on? "
Look, don't react to this -- but a train's been hijacked --
Holy shit.
Exactly. Try and maintain order on the platform and for God's sake don't say anything! Oh, and there's a Supervisor from Grand Central Tower around there some- where -- see if you can find him.
I saw him a couple of minutes ago, Lieutenant -- he was headed down- track on foot.
-Oh Jesus! You'd better go after him -- see if you can turn him back.
I don't give a goddam what they were armed with -- your job is to. stay on that train until you get authorization to leave!
They said they'd kill me, for God's sake!
You're like the captain of a ship -- you're supposed to go down with it.
 Bullshit.
Butt out!
You're going down there? Hey, I wouldn't, if I were you.
I know you wouldn't. He leaves Doyle and starts down the track. A few Passengers in the line call to him.
You work for the :,ubway? Tell 'em I'm gonna sue this time -- I really mean it -- I'm gonna sue!
Why's it his fault?
'Cuz he's the head o' the city, ain't he? That makes him respon- sible. They oughta impeach the bum!
Stop right there, cowboy -- !
You'll find out if you take another step -- !
I'm warning you, mister -- that's city property you're fooling around with -- I
That's just too fucking bad!
Why didn't you ga grab a goddam airplane like everybody else?!
We're afraid of flying. Now I'm. tellin' you, buster -- clear out or I Ill shoot your ass off!
Stand back -- I'm coming on board -- ! He starts forward.
I warned you, stupid -- I
Dead silence as CAMERA ADVANCES toward Grey. Now the sub- machine gun he's pointing at Caz  begins spitting fire and spewing out the spent shells.
I warned the bastard but he kept on coming anyway.
Was he alone?
I didn't see anybody else.
Take over back there. I want Mr. Grey up closer to me so I dan keep an eye on him.
He' s a little trigger-happy.
Maybe it was necessary -- I didn't see it.
He loved every minute of it.
Patrolman James calling Operations
This is Garber -- It comes in too loud and James frantically lowers the volume.
-- what's going on? Did you find that Supervisor?
He's dead, Lieutenant.
Speak up, will you? I can't hear you.
I can't -- I'm only about 20 yards from the hijacked train. They just shot him.
Shot who ? .
The Supervisor -- with a motherfuckin' machine gun!
Is he dead?
Wouldn't you be?
But you're not sure.
What do you want me to do, Lieutenant -- go out there and feel his pulse?
All right -- stay put and keep an eye on things.  Clive -- they just drew first blood. That Tower Supervisor from Grand Central -- we don't know his name -- they just killed him.
Oh, God --
Frank -- do you knew who went down to 28th Street from Grand Central?
Yeah -- Caz Dolowitz. It7hy?
Jesus -- I knew him --
What do you mean knew him?
They just shot him.
Lieutenant. Prescott -- are you there, Clive -- ?
 Who's this?
Costello.
Yes, Captain.
I'm putting you in charge at this end, Clive --I'm going down to 28th Street. If I don't show up pretty quick the city cops Ill hog all the action. They've ordered up a major mobilization, calling in units from four of the five boroughs -- there's even one on board the train -- one of the hostages.
You're kidding! A cop? How do you know?
There were two of 'em -- one got off at 33rd Street and called in later when the news got out. That means the other one's still on the damn thing.
Plainclothes?
That's right.
Man or woman?
Male Chauvinist Pig -- sir.
Yeah. Keep in touch with 'em, Clive -- don't let communications break clown. Tell l em the wheels are grinding -- tell 'em the Commissioner's on his way up to see the Mayor -- tell 'em we need more time -- tell 'em -- oh, shit, I don't know what to tell 'em. Jesus, what a city!
Captain -- I wouldn't mind getting over there myself.
Out of the question, Clive -- we need you here. Incidentally, the Chairman asked me to thank you.
What for?
The way you treated those four Japs. They said they had a great time -- the highlight of their whole trip.
What do you know.
What does it say?
103 -point -4 .
Including the MAYOR, a short, swarthy, roly-poly man with a fringe of dark hair and modish aviator's glasses;. un- shaven, lying in bed, the covers. pulled up to his chin; suffering from the flu; a glass,of juice on his bedside table along with sprays and vials of pills; and the Nurse, an elderly, white-haired we nan who, in case of invasion, could hold off the Mongols single handedly.
103-point-4?! It was-only 102- point-9 the last time!
Last time it was orally. Orally is generally a half a degree lower.
Don't remind me. All I know is I've got a chill, my bones ache, my head is ready to come off and my nose is a disaster area I'm the Mayor of the goddam city of New York, the second most important elective office in the entire United States --
are you telling me that I have to lie here feeling lousy like every other zhlub in the country?
 Don't forget to drink your juice at three. And take two of the blue pills.
Orally? ,  Boy -- boy oh boy -- He picks up the remote-control clicker and raises the sound of his TV set.
Couple number two, Arthur and Eleanor -- you have twenty points -- answer the bonus question correctly and you'll move into first place -- The phone rings and he clicks the sound off with one hand and lifts the receiver with the other.
Yeah.
No!
Yes it can -- I'll already be dead when you get here.
Don't tell me, I don't want to know.
Can't you handle it, Warren?
Sure I can handle it -- like I handle every other rotten filthy job in this miserable city -- but I won't:
What do you mean you won't? You're the goddam Deputy Mayor -- of course
This one you've got to handle your- self, Nate.
What is it, another strike? That's all right -- I can take another
A gang of men has hijacked a subway
What?!!
-- they want a million dollars for it.
-- And that means couple number one, Tom and Rusty, are the winners of today's Newlywed Game!!
I missed it.
I thought it over, Warren -- you know what we're gonna do?
No, tell me.
Let 'em keep the goddam subway train. Hell, we've got plenty more just like it -- we'll never miss it.
How about the seventeen hostages -- will we miss them?
Oh. Dammit, Warren, the city hasn't got a million dollars!
Then you'd better empty out one of your Swiss bank accounts because there's no other way out.
Don't we even get` to think about it?
There's no time! In --  -- exactly forty-nine minutes they're gonna start shooting those hostages. How would that look in the Daily News? -- "1NEW YORKERS DIE WHILE
I still want the full picture. Get the Police Commissioner, the Chairman of the Transit Authority, and that putz we've got for a
They're on their way over now.
But it's no good running to them, Nate -- you're the Mayor -- which means You're gonna do it my way -- just like always.
Command Center calling Pelham One Two Three -- come in, Pelham One Two Three --
What do you want me to do? I got motormen calling in from all along the line trying to find out what the hell's going on!
Tell 'em to shut up and get off the air -- I need some more lines open !
I never thought I'd see the day when talking to murderers got priority over running a railroad.
Oh, get off it, Frank -- our priority is trying to save the lives of those passengers!
Screw the goddam passengers! What do they expect for their lousy thirty- five cents -- to live forever? !
Oh, you're beautiful.  Do you read me, Pelham One Two Three -- ?
If I were handling it I'd go storming in there with guns and tear gas and I blast 'em outl
Yeah, well, you're not handling it so why don't you start doing your own work and let the police do theirs.
Like that lily-livered cop who's on the train? Why hastn't he started shooting yet?
We don't.even know it is a he --  Do you read me, Pelham One Two Three -- ?
Goddam woman cops -- what the hell good are they? She probably can't find her gun in her goddam purse! This is Pelham One Two Three -- do you have any news to report?
Nothing yet.
What were you' calling about?
We need more time.
It's 2:24, Lieutenant -- you still have 49 minutes.
Be reasonable, will you? We're trying to cooperate but you're not giving us enough time to work with.
49 minutes.
We're dealing with City Hall, for God's sake -- you know what a mass of red tape that is!
49 minutes.
Look, I know how to tell time, too, but we aren't gonna get anywhere if all you do is repeat 49 minutes!
48 minutes.
Yeah. All right, we'll get back as soon as we can. He disconnects and sits back in his chair, staring at the ceiling.
Christ -- to hear you pleading with that chickenshit -- it makes me ashamed to be an American.
Go away, Frank -- go play with your trains.
Everything quiet out here, Mr. Green?
Yeah -- except I think we've got our- selves a cop.
what do you mean?
One of the hostages -- fuzz if I ever saw it.
Which one?
-- the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh -- that's him, next to the freak -- It's the W.A.S.P. type, who is staring off into space, I sitting next to the Hippie who seems hypnotized by his own wiggling toes.
You ever see anybody look more like a cop?
I'd better frisk him. Cover me. He walks slowly down the aisle and stops. in front of the
On your feet.
What?
You heard me -- stand up! Nervously, the man stands. Blue frisks him, quickly and expertly. When he fails to find a weapon, he takes the man's wallet.
Okay -- you can sit down.
As the man sits, Blue looks through the wallet.
School teacher.
That's right.
You ever been told you look like a policeman,?
Blue tosses the wallet back into the teacher's lap, then turns to face the other hostages.
Listen to me, everybody. I'm sure you've' all figured out what' happening by now -- you're hostages.
That means when we get what we,want you'll be released unharmed. Until then, you will continue doing precisely as you're told. _
And if you don't get what you want? What'll happen. to us?
f This is the Police Commissioner -- get me theBorough Commander.  Turn off that goddam music, will you, George?
It's murder, Phil -- as usual, they're coming out of the woodwork. I wouldn't be surprised if we got a couple of thousand thrill-seekers -- they really smell blood on this one.
Your barriers up?
Hell yes -- and we're pushing the overflow into the side-streets. We aren't gonna win any new friends,
Do we ever? How about traffic?
I stuck a patrolman at every inter- section from 14th to 34th, and crosstown from 2nd to 5th.
Who's your Number Two?
BOROUGH CO1.10MANDER. from Special Operations. He's a good man, Phil -- he handled that protest at Bryant Park last month.
How are you deployed?
I've got about fifty men inside the
-- north and south of the train, well concealed -- all wearing vests and armed with machine and sub- machine guns, shot guns, riot guns, hand guns, tear gas grenades -- and a half-dozen snipers with night scopes. We could fight the goddam third world war down there.
Just make sure they stay out of sight -- if the hijackers see them we may have a massacre on our hands.
We have a sniper's report that they're moving around inside the car pretty freely -- and the one in the motorman's cab is fully exposed and a damn easy shot.
No! Under no cirL:umstances! Do you understand me, Phil? Absolutely no! We're taking their threats seariously. What've you got above ground? Again, if feasible, we can see what he describes.
Any direct communications with the hijackers?
Negative. It's awkward as hell. The T.A. Command Center in Brooklyn has the only direct contact.
Harry, tell me something, will you? They're in a tunnel -- surrounded on all sides, top and bottom -- how the hell do they expect to get away?
Beats the shit out of me, Phil.
Nate, for God's sake. She baskets it, then turns to Warren LaSalle.
Warren -- tell him other Mayors have to use the house after we're gone.
There's a knock and Warren hurries to open the door. in walk three men: The Commissioner, the CONTROLLER and the CHAIRMAN of the Transit Authority.
Thanks for coming up on short notice, fellas -- you all know Jessie, don't you? The Police Commissioner -- the Controller -- the Chairman of the Transit Authority -- ?
Yes, it's nice to see you again.
Mrs. Mayor --
Hi, Jess --
Good afternoon.--
Coffee for everybody -- and some cake?
Uh -- better skip it, Jessie -- we're running a little short of time. We all know what's going on underground, right? So the main issue is whether to pay the ransom or not. All the rest is secondary. Phil? What do you think?
Well -- we're fully mobilized -- I can go down there any time you say with enough firepower to wipe out an army -- but I can't guarantee the safety of the 'hostages.
In other words, you're for paying the rarlsom.
We don't want another Attica on our hands, do we?
So your vote is -- ?
I abstain.
Shit. Barny?
The safety of the passengers is the only concern of the Transit Authority.
Your vote?
Pay the two dollars.
Sure -- two dollars I'd pay! But it's a million, Barfly -- a one with six zeroes! Is it coming out of your pccket?
Come on, Sid -- save the poor- mouth for later. How do you vote?
I'm not through discussing it yet.
Yes you are. Now vote.
My concern is with the taxpayers -- someone's oughta be. "Millions for defense but not one cent for tribute!"
So that's a no. All right, Nate -- you've heard from the Three Wise Men -- what do you say? Everyone turns to the Mayor. He sneezes into a Kleenex and tosses it onto the floor.
What're they gonna say, Warren?
They who?
Everybody -- the press, the man on the street --
He means the voters.
Just what you'd expect -- the Times will support you on purely humani- tarian grounds -- the News'11 knock you for coddling criminals -- and the Post will take both sides at the same time. As for public opinion -- you'll carry Manhattan, lose Queens and Staten Island, and split down the middle in Brooklyn and the Bronx. The rich'11 support you -- likewise the blacks -- the Puerto Ricans won't give a shit. So how about it, Nate? -- quit I. stalling.
Stop trying to bully everybody, Warren -- this is supposed to be a democracy!
Wise up,. for Chrissake! We're trying to run a city, not a goddam democracy!
I know a million dollars is a lot of money -- but just think what you'll, get in return.
What?
Seventeen sure votes.
Halleluja!  You heard it, fellas. Phil -- pass the word to the bad guys that we're coughing up.
Sid -- what bank do we do the most business with?
City National Trust -- I'll give 'em a call.
I'll call -- you're liable to spend an hour trying to knock down the interest rate. Come on -- everyone downstairs -- let's move it! The Mayor and Jessie are left alone. She picks up the crumpled Kleenex.
I thought I handled it all right.
A regular Fiorello LaGuardia.
Nothing yet?  They're sure taking their time.
Don't worry -- they're going to pay. They have no choice.
The hostages. Yeah. At first I thought to myself, "Five of 'em are spades -- who's gonna pay anything for spades?" But they don't know who we've got, do they?
It wouldn't matter if all seventeen were dope pushers -- they have to pay, so relax.
I know they have to -- but what if they don't?
Then a lot of people are going to die.
Including us.
Either you live or you die.
Living's better.
It depends. It's Y not better than trying to sell mutual funds, for example.
Did you do that?
I tried.
I thought you were in the army.
I was. That's where I developed my expensive tastes.
In the army? Sure' -- on three-fifty a month.
The Biafrans paid me twenty-five hundred for leading a battalion.
A month? Holy Christ l Why'd you ever get out of that?
The market dried up.
At least you weren't fired. But shit, I didn't mind -- who wants to drive a goddam subway train for the rest of.his life?
What'd they nail you for?
Nothing! They framed me -- the goddam Beakies had to find a fall- guy and they --
Beakies?
Transit inspectors -- undercover men. They got wind of a gang passing dope -- you know, transporting it from downtown to uptown, giving it to a motorman, and then someone picking it up in Harlem. The Beakies tried to pin it on me, but they never had any evidence..
You were innocent?
Hell yes, I was innocentl Do you think I'd do anything like that?
Yes.
City National Trust? -- the Chairman of the Board, please? --
The Chairman is on an overseas call at the moment --
I don't care if he's talking to the moon -- get your ass inside that of fice and put him on the line! He lights a cigarette while he waits.
Good afternoon, Mr. LaSalle -- what is it I can do for you?
A subway train's been hijacked. Unless we can deliver a million dollars within --  -- twenty-eight minutes, seventeen people will be assassinated.
A subway train -- how very original. A million, you say?
Yes, sir -- is there any problem about that much cash being available?
None whatsoever. We're members of the Federal Reserve.
Swell. Then will you arrange for us to be given that amount right away?
Given? I'm not sure I urde-rstand what you mean by "given," Mr. LaSalle.
Lent to whom, Mr. LaSalle?
To us, goddammit -- the sovereign city of New York --
Yes, well, there are certain techni- calities involved in such a trans- action, Mr. LaSalle -- terms, duration, signatures --
There isn't time for all that -- I
But "all that," as you put it, happens to be what we do for a living, Mr. LaSalle --
Listen to me, you stupid goddam piece of shit! if you don't come through in five seconds flat I will er ssona Illy find a violation in every in c h ofplumbing and wiring in every branch you've got in this whole fucking city! The Chairman looks as though he's been struck between the eyes. After a pause, he speaks z.iietly:
Do you know something, Mr. LaSalle? In my entire sixty-seven years no one's ever spoken to me like that.
on the F.D.R. Drive, passing the Sutton Place apartment houses and approaching the United Nations, siren screaming.
Harry -- ? I'm on my way down. We just got the green light.
Green light -- you mean we can rush 'em? Jesus, Phil, that's great news -- the men are raring to go -- !
Not you asshole! -- we're paying the ransom money! Pass the word along to the hijackers.
-- come in D .C .I . Daniels -- this is the Borough Commander -- I
Pass the word along: the Mayor's agreed to pay. Let the hijackers know right away, will you?
Roger. He sets the hand radio aside and activates the subway transmitter.
Command Center, this is 28th Street -- do you read me, Command Center -- ?
This is Command Center --
This is Daniels -- the Mayor's agreed to pay -- inform the hijackers right away.
Will do.  Command Center calling Pelham One Two Three -- come in, Pelham One Two Three -- This is Pelham --rgo ahead, Prescott --
We agree to pay the ransom -- repeat, we agree to pay.
Do you read me, Pelham -- ?
I read you. Please take down the next set of instructions. As before, they're to be obeyed to the letter. First -- the money is to be paid in the following denominations: five hundred thousand dollars in fifties, five hundred thousand dollars in hundreds.
Making a total of ten thousand fifty dollar bills and Alive thousand hundred dollar bills -- which will then be put up in stacks of two hundred bills each, bound with a thick rubber band lengthwise and another widthwise.
. Ten thousand fifties, five thousand hundreds, in packs of two hundred, bound fore and aft with rubber
Point two: all of the bills will be old bills, their serial numbers to erandom.
That's all for now. When the delivery arrives we will contact you with further instructions.
About your getaway?
I'm signing off now.
It might interest you to know I've figured out how you're going to do
You're going to make every man, woman and child in New York City close their eyes and count to a hundred.
It's two-forty-seven, Prescott you have twenty-six minutes.
What? Don't be stupid -- we've agreed to pay the money. Now turn off the clock.
Twenty-six minutes, Prescott.
Look -- your instructions are complicated! The money has to be counted, stacked, tied, transported all the way uptown -- it just isn't physically possible! You'd be surprised what's physically possible. The clock's running, Prescott.
But he may still be alive He's dead.
But you can't be sure -- Very well -- we'll put another half
dozen rounds into him so everyone can be sure. Over and out. Prescott turns and sees that the others, at nearby desks, have been watching and listening. He stares back at them for a moment., then checks his watch.
Your attention please -- At the far end, Brown guards the rear door. At mid-car, Grey stands with his legs astride.
Including Blue and, behind him, at the front storm door, Green.
The city has agreed to pay for your release. No one quite knows how to greet this news -- except the Pimp who slowly, mockingly, claps his hands together.
As soon as the money gets here -- will you let us go?
No -- but soon afterwards.
Do you mind telling us now how much you're getting?
What difference does it make?
A person likes to know his worth.
A million dollars.
Each?
Altogether.
Pull in your feet -- someone's liable to get hurt. The. Hippie looks up at him, smiles, and slides his feet back. Blue continues until he comes to Grey. He speaks quietly to him.
Stop fooling around with that girl, Mr. Grey.
What's the big deal? She's a twenty buck a trick hooker.
I said leave her alone.
Don't worry -- I could do this job and hump that broad at the same time -- without missing a stroke.
That's the difference between us, Mr. Blue -- I've always done my own killing.
Maybe we'll get a chance to work that out.
"FEDERAL RESERVE BANK of N.Y."
Yes -- ?
The Chairman of the City National Trust on five-seven -- he said it's important. The President pushes a button putting the call on the speaker- phone ar_d he returns to his golf.
Hello, Ben -- what can I do for you?
I need a million, Henry.
A million what?
Dollars, of course.
 A million ones?
No, not in ones -- in fifties and hundreds.
I don't think you're following me, Henry --.a million dollars, that's all -- in fifties and hundreds.
It's ransom money -- a subway train's been hijacked -- they've threatened to kill all the passengers.
 Why the hell didn't you say so? Tell me how you want it and have a truck at the Maiden Lane loading platform in ten minutes.
This is Roger Grimsby for Eye- witness News, here at the inter- section of 28th Street and Park Avenue South, the scene of this incredible subway hijack --
You're looking now at members of the T .P .F . -- the Tactical Police Force -- as they attempt to deal with this enormous crowd which is con- tinuing to grow every minute. Officer -- officer -- this is Eyewitness News -- An OFFICER turns to CAMERA.
Very large.
Would you describe it as unruly?
Compared to some I've seen, Roger, I'd have to say it was ruly. Definitely ruly.
Excuse me, madam -- do you have any comment on the drama that's unfolding beneath our feet at this very moment?
What particular part of the drama do you want me to comment on?
Some people feel that our subways have becomes jungles.. Any comment on that?
In my opinion, Roger, our subways have become jungles.
Dogs --,all they gotta do is loose
Yeah -- I definitely heard it on the radio -- they're asking a million dollars for each passenger. That makes sixty-five million dollars in all --
You know how they're gonna get away? The sewers -- they got a map of the sewers -- just like that French guy, the Count of Monte
I met you before, Roger -- remember two years ago? -- at that three- alarm fire in Crown Heights -- ?
Excuse me, sir -- from the looks of things, you could use another pair of hands. I s this your regular corner?
Terrific -- really terrific! What's going on, a parade?
Patrolman James calling operations -- come in, operations --
This is Garber -- what's going on?
That's what I want to know, Lieutenant -- standing here like a statue -- it's drivin' me bananas!
Just sit tight, James -- it won't be much longer.
I just want to know one thing, Lieutenant -- there's a whole mess of feet runnin' around out there in the dark -- I can hear 'em. I figure it's a couple of dozen snipers and sharpshooters -- am I right?
I wouldn't- be surprised.
Yeah, well, would you make sure they know about' me standin' here between them and the hijackers?
Pull your pants up, Nate -- we're going downtown. "
It's totally out of the question, Mr. LaSalle.
Nobody asked you!
Warren, for Chrissake, I'm sick as a goat. What's the point?
The point, you dumb cluck, is that the Mayor of the City of New York, trailing by twenty-two points in all the polls, cares enough about seven- teen citizens in jeopardy to make a personal appearance in their behalf!
You know what'll happen -- what always happens -- I'll get booed. The Doctor starts taking the Mayor's pulse.
This is a very sick man.
 Let go of that! You're off the case! Look, Nate, all you have to do is say a few words to the hi- jackers over a bullhorn -- make a dignified plea for mercy
Do you think it will help?
Of course it'll help!
No, You.
Warren -- suppose the hijackers start shooting at me --
Will you stop? They've got no reason to shoot at you.
-- Shut up and listen to me! All Lexington Avenue trains departing from Dyer Avenue and 180th Street in the Bronx. are diverted to the West Side tracks at 149th Street and the Grand Concourse -- ! CAMERA PANS to Prescott, who is sitting at his desk, watching Correll and shaking his head.
 Yeah, who's this?
It's Sol -- what're we waiting for, Clive?
I'll be goddamned if I know. Jesus! How long does it take to get that money together? r
We'll never make it. The passengers are dead ducks.
There's still fifteen minutes. I'm signing off,. Sol.  Command Center calling 28th Street -- can you read me, Daniels -- ?
This is Daniels -- came in, Command
Has the money left yet?
Not yet.
Well for God's sake, give then a goose, will you? We're running out of time!  Command Center calling Pelham One Two Three -- come in, Pelham -- This is Pelham One To Three --
This is Prescott. Listen -- we're moving too slowly at this end. We need some more time. Sorry -- no more time. Prescott's face hardens, his jaw. muscles tense.
-- Here's the flex south of 14th Street -- I want the expresses run off into Brooklyn --
-- and all locals"sent around the loop at South Ferry and shot up the West Side from Bowling Green --
I said knock it off! I'm trying to buy some more time! A silence in the room as everyone turns to watch Prescott as he speaks into the mike.
All we want is another fifteen minutes, all right? A lousy fifteen minutes ! Negative.
Ten minutes, then -- what difference can ten minutes make?
I heard you on the radio -- anything wrong, Mr. Blue?
They've requested more time.
How much more?
Ten minutes.
I guess it won't hurt anything.
I 'didn't -give it to them.
Then we do what we said we'd do. There's no other way.
Maybe an hour wasn't enough time
An hour's plenty! You know how the system works -- you give them two hours and they take two -- three and they take three. An hour's plenty!
And what if it isn't?
I don't know. They're running pretty late.
it sure is taking them a helluva long time --
That's right -- kid around. But you know damn well that if we don't get it up there on time they're gonna blame us for it -- you know they're gonna blame us for it.
Look out there, -Albert -- eight cycles -- just for us -- and I hear there's gonna be a cop at every single intersection all the way uptown.
Yeah, and while we're tying up the entire New York Police Force, the whole East Side's gonna be ripped off.
Albert, this might be the biggest day of my life and you're determined to spoil it, aren't you? RADIO r This is the Borough Commander -- come in, Car Fourteen-David --
 This is Fourteen-David ---
Jesus Christi Aren't you guys moving yet? What the hell's going on down there -- do you know what the goddam time is?
(rolling his eyes
Yes, sir -- we're still waiting for the money to come out, sir --
Yeah? Well if it's not there in thirty seconds you have my permission to go in after it! A LIEUTENANT interrupts him.
Sir -- we just got word that the Mayor's on his way down.
Terrific. Tell him we'll hold the crowd 'til he gets here.  I'm warning you two guys -- if I don't see your faces before the deadline, I don't'want to see them at all! Ever!! He slams down the mike.
What'd I tell you? It's all gonna be our fault.
They throw it into the front seat on Ricci's side and slam the door. The motorcycles are already starting to move, shoving off, their sirens wailing and the truck starts after them.
From the roof of one of the office buildings, as the police truck continues along Nassau, past john, Fulton, Ann, and on toward Beekman, the eight motorcycles leading it.
Beautiful -- really beautiful! I've always wanted to do this -- we're scaring the shit out of everybody.
Including me.
What's wrong with you, Albert? This is something you can tell your kids about some day.
CAMERA PANS with the truck as it passes Chambers Street and heads up Centre.
Where are they now, Daniels -- ?
Centre Street, just north of Chambers.
What've we got -- ?
Even if they make it up here to 28th Street in time -- we've still gotta carry it down track on foot.
No way.  Pelham One Two Three -- this is
This is Pelham One Two Three --
The money's en route -- making pretty good time, too -- but it won't get to you by 3:13. I'm sorry to hear that.
Listen -- suppose we get it to the station entrance by then -- will you change the deadline from delivery to you to arrival at 28th Street? Will you do that at least -- ?
I'm here, Prescott.
Clear, clear.  Daniels -- they bought it. If we get it to the station entrance by 3:13 we'll be okay.
Good job, Prescott.
Except for one thing --
What's that?
We still won't make it.
-- proceeding west on Canal Street on our way to Lafayette. Traffic heavy. Over.
Keep it coming -- you've got five minutes.
We'll make it.  We'll never make it.
tl?ENTTIORTH Five minutes? No sweat, Albert -- you want to stop for a beer?
Jesusl Look out -- I
Sir -- there's been an accident --
Jesus Christ, I don't believe it! He starts for the radio in one of the vehicles. The time
He grabs the mike.
This is the Borough Commander -- what the hell happened?
Two cycles went down -- both riders got banged up-pretty bad. They'll need an ambulance.
Never mind! Drop off two more bikes to look after them and keep going -- do you hear me? Keep
Get the lead out, for Chrissakel
 Why don't they face it -- it just can't be done!
You know something, Albert -- you're absolutely right. Next corner we're turning right, crossing the bridge to Brooklyn and you and me, we got ourselves a fast million bucks, free and clear.
Are ou crazy? !  You're kidding around again.
But I had you going there for a minute, didn'.t I, 'Albert? _
as now the seconds are shown, running -- '135-36-37-38--" and will continue to do so throughout the following scenes.
Mr. Green --
 What?
Coming up on one minute.
I guess not.
Mr. Brown.
Does he know?
He won't mind.
Neither would Mr. Grey.
Mr.. Brown's better. With hint it's just a job -- not kicks. He looks at his watch as the.SUPERIMPOSED time continues to run: "3:12.07-08-09--to
Fifty seconds -- then we erase one.
You've still.got twenty-eight blocks -- floor the sonovabitch! ! Wentworth is bent over the wheel, all determination now.
Tell him I'm doing over sixty now!
Holy Christ: -- the street's blocked!
Hold on -- I'm going through -- !
SHOOTING THROUGH the windshield (as the SUPERIMPOSED time continues to run: "3:12.26-27-28-29--") The tail-lights of the cycles are twinkling red'as they begin braking -- a tractor-trailer is stretched across the street, lining up its rear-end with the narrow opening of a loading bay, in preparation for backing into it. Now the truck starts backing, and while there is still some space open it is closing fast. The cycles screech to a stop but it is clear that the truck doesn't intend to as it bumps up onto the sidewalk, and starts for the opening. But it is now too narrow. The screeching brakes of the truck are heard as it starts to skid around, the panorama flashing by sickeningly and, perhaps, a crash and, perhaps, the scene flopping over as the truck, perhaps, rolls over onto one side.
Daniels -- for God's sake answer me! Where's that goddam money -- ?!
Hello, Prescott -- the truck's been wrecked -- somewhere on Lafayette Street. Their radio's gone dead --
what the hell are you talking about?! It can't be wrecked -- we're out of time, goddammit!
What do you want me to do?! We couldn't make it, that's all!
What do you mean, that's all?! They're just about to shoot some poor sonuvabitch -- 1!
What do they expect us to do? If they know we're wrecked how can they ask us to --
They don't know anything, for Chrissake! How can they know anything down where they -- Holy shit, that's it!! He punches a button on the console as the SUPERIMPOSED numbers now reflect the time down to the tenth of a second:
--fl
 Pelham One Two. Three -- ! The money's arrived -- repeat, the money's arrived!!
Yeah. I'm still here. Tell me something -- if we were a couple of seconds late -- you'd have knocked off an innocent person? Affirmative. Now if you're ready, I'll give you instructions for the delivery of the money. Again, I'll have to insist you follow them to the letter.
Go ahead. Two unarmed policemen will walk down the track -- one with the money, the other with a light which he'll flash continuously from side to side in a sweeping motion. When they reach the car the rear door will open and the one with the money will throw it in onto the floor. Then they will both turn and walk back to the 28th Street Station. Acknowledge.
I've got it. Is that all? For now. But keep it in mind that the same ground rules apply -- any wrong move by anyone and we'll kill a hostage.
I could've. guessed that part. You have ten minutes to deliver the money. If it isn't here by then --
Yeah, I know -- -it's getting mono- tonous. I don't suppose you'll give us longer than ten minutes -- Ten's more than enough, Prescott
You don't really think you're gonna get out of there, do you?
Over. Over, you bastard.
Well, it's about fucking time!
Which one has the flashlight?
I do, sir -- He shows it hanging from his belt.
All right -- then you
Christ, it's the goddam Mayor!
No, but I can sure hear him --
The Mayor, wrapped in a blanket, is smiling and nodding as he passes through the crowd, led by a wedge of COPS, flanked on one side by the Commissioner, and on the other by Warren LaSalle. The BoroughrCommander waits for him, shaking his head in disgust.
And to think that I voted for the ba stard . The Mayorand entourage join him.
Hello, Commander -- His Honor wants to go down into the tunnel with a bullhorn and make a personal appeal to the hijackers.
I'm afraid not.
I wasn't asking for your permission -- all you have to do is clear the way.
The Commander looks at the Commissioner who stares right back, blankly. Then he turns to the Mayor.
I appreciate your wanting to help, sir, but you've come at a very bad time.
Mr. Commissioner, will you order your man to comply?
Cool it, Warren'-- the Commander knows the situation here and we don't.
Nate -- I'm warning you --
I feel shitty, Warren -- I'm going back to bed. The Mayor turns and starts back through the crowd, Warren chasing after him.
Nate -- ! For God's sake, Nate -- ! All that can be seen in the darkness is a flashlight, its beam swinging back and forth, coming toward CAMERA. The time is SUPERIMPOSED:
Miskowsky and O'Keefe walking along the roadbed, between the rails, Miskowsky swinging the flash, O'Keefe.carrying the sack on his shoulder, both looking around nervously, CAMERA MOVING with them. Finally:
My name's Miskowsky. What's yours?
O'Keefe .
Pleased t' meet ya. Tactical Force?
That's right.
You get the feelin' we're not alone down here?
What do you mean?
I thought I saw'someone -- a couple of times in fact --
A FIGURE in the shadows, standing behind a pillar, seen only in silhouette as CAMERA PASSES him -- his helmet, his high-powered rifle, etc. -- looking very menacing.
You realize we got four submachine guns ahead of us and all those jokers behind us? I feel like I'm walkin' into the fuckin' O.K. Corral.
P'choo, p'choo, p'choo -- He blows imaginary smoke from the end of his finger, pleased with himself.
Shiiiiiit.
From the other side of the pillar as James ducks back behind it, turns his back to it and looks around for another way of amusing himself. He notices his real gun in a holster at his belt and unbuttons the strap, freeing it. Then he assumes the stance of a gunfighter, hand poised over it, knees slightly bent. Then, moving suddenly, he slaps his holster, wheels, fires without aiming -- and there's a reverberating BANG, the shattering of glass and the figure in the subway car reels back. James looks at his hand in amazement -- there's no gun in it. Then, at the same-time, Brown has recovered his balance and begins firing his submachine gun, the bullets ricocheting off the metal pillars.
For Chrissake, they're shooting at us!, O'Keefe pushes the sack of money in front of them and they press flat behind it.
and there is glass all over the floor nearby. Brown is just in the process of sitting heavily in the single isolated seat near the door, a dark red patch blossoming on his sleeve, just below the right shoulder, his sub- machine gun resting in his lap. He begins examining his wound with his left hand. Grey s--ands at the rear door, pressed flat against the wall, peering out.
Return to your position, Mr. Grey.
Maybe they're not through --
You heard me, Mr. Grey! I don't think there'll be any more.
It's not too bad -- I think it went right through.
How does it feel?
Okay -- I never feel pain too much.
How many shots were there?
Just one -- the rest was me. I didn't see anything -- I guess I just got mad -- no sense to it --
I'm not mad any more -- forget it.
We can't afford to. (looking around, at the Passengers) I'll go pick one cut.
-- I don't know who did it, Lieutenant -- it came from behind me somewhere -- in the dark. It hadda be one of them snipers they got down here --
Acting on whose orders?
I don't know -- maybe nobody's.
You mean somebody just took it into his head to fire? On his own? How could he do such a thing?
Can you see what's going on inside the train?
Not too good.
What do you think -they'll do?
I don't know -- but I'd sure hate to be in there finding out.
You mean me -- ?
That's right, conductor. Would you come along with me, please?
Why? -- what are you going to do?
There's something you can help us with. Bud still hesitates.
Don't worry, conductor -- come
He leads Bud by the arm back to the rear of the car, every Passen gar's eye on the conductor as he passes, his free hand moving from overhead strap to strap.
All you have to do is walk uptrack about a hundred feet and wait for the men delivering the money. They have reached the rear where Bud manages to avoid looking at Brown while Blue slides open the door.
I'll help you down onto the track.
Why do I have to go -- ?
Look -- somebody's being helped down onto the track --
What the hell are you talking about, Sol? How do you know they shot a hostage?
Because one of our own cops is right there! The body almost landed on him, for Chris sake !
But why?! We're still under the delivery deadline --
Somebody threw a shot at them -- now they're showing us they're men of their word.
Who the hell fired at them?
Nobody knows. My bet is we never will.
How far did the money get?
Our guys says about fifteen yards back of him. It stopped when the shooting started. What do we do now, Clive?
I better find out. Christ, what a fucking mess!  Pelham One Two Three -- come in, Pelham, this is Prescott -- This is Pelham -- go ahead, Prescott --
Did you have to do it, you bastard?
One of my people was shot -- I warned you what the penalty would be.
I'm going to get you, you know -- me personally.
In the meantime, where's the money?
What do we do now?
Pray that a million bucks is bullet-proof.
Hey, you guys --
 Jesus, who's thgt -- ?
Transit cop -- I'm up ahead. I got orders for you. Resume your delivery.
I don't suppose we could have it in writing --
Get going -- the orders are make it snappy. Miskowsky and O'Keefe regard one another, then get slowly to their feet and brush themselves off.
I'll never get this crap off. One of these days they oughta clean up this subway. He switches on his flashlight.
Mr. Blue -- there's the light. Blue returns to the rear and stands watching with Brown.
picks out Bud's dead body on the track -- and then Caz Dolowitz.
It looks like Vietnam down here. They continue toward the first car.
Mr. Grey -- He gestures for Grey to join them which he does, his eyes on the money all the time.
Well -- will you look at that,
Get your things off -- both of you -- and start loading up. Blue watches while both Grey and :Brown remove their raincoats, jackets and finally their shirts. Brown has a blood-stained kerchief tied around his right upper arm. Both wear what can only be called money vests: canvas, sleeveless, fitting over the head like a Mae West, with ties on the sides, and containing pockets, 20 in all, front and back.
Jr. Grey, you do Mr. Brown, then he'll do you -- nineteen packets each. Blue continues to observe for a mc-,ment as Grey starts inserting packets of pills, one to a pocket, into Brown's vest, as Brown stands stiffly, his hands at his sides. Then Blue walks to the front end of the car, joining Green.
All that money -- I can't believe
When they're finished it'll be your turn. Mr. Grey will load you up. But don't go down there until Nr. Brown has come here to take your place. I'll load up as soon as I talk-to Prescott.
I just wish it was all over already.
Pretty soon now. He goes into the motorman's cab and shuts the door.
 This is Prescott --
I'm going to give you five specific instructions. Each one i.s.to be followed precisely -- is that clear?
So far.
One: at the end of this conversation you will restore power to the entire sector.
Twos you will clear the local track all the way from 28th Street to South Ferry. By clear I mean switches properly set and all signals green. I emphasize green, Prescott -- if eve so much as see a red light, let alone get tripped by one, we will shoot a hostage.
Three.: all southbound trains behind us, local and express, are to remain lying dead. Likewise all northbound between South Ferry and here.
Four: you will con-",act me as soon as the track is clear and all signals are green.
Five: you will remove all police personnel from the tunnel. If we see a single cop between here and South Ferry we will shoot a hostage. In fact, any deviation from these instructions and we will shoot a hostage.
Are you aware that you're insane?  Let me know when all five points have been complied with. Over and out. Prescott sits back for a moment, thinking. Then he punches a button.
Sol -- you there -- ?
I'm here, Clive, what's up?
Hold on while I cut in the city
 Daniels -- ? This is Prescott --
Come in, Prescott, this is Daniels --
Daniels, I've got Lieutenant Garber of the Transit Police on the line with us. I have the latest instructions from the hijackera. They want power restored, the tracks cleared, all signals green as far as South Ferry, and no cops anywhere. Okay, so we go along -- we have to -- but then what? What do you think they've got in mind?
Beats hell out of me, Clive. I wouldn't've picked a tunnel to make my getaway from in the first place.
But they did pick it'-- and since everything they've done so far has
been organized down to tha smallest detail, it stands to reason they've got the rest worked out, too.
Power restored and the track cleared -- so they're gonna move their car, obviously. But why South Ferry?
If I remember right it comes after Bowling Green -- what comes after South Ferry?
Bowling Green again -- the track loops around and heads back uptown.
All they'll do is bottle themselves up. That's no good.
So that means they want South Ferry. Why?
Do you think it's the water, Sol? Maybe they've got a boat waiting in the harbor -- dr a seaplane --
Who knows? We'd.better play it a step at a time. Clive, you see about restoring power and clearing .the track. Daniels and I'll start pulling our units out of the tunnel. We can follow them just as well up above, on the street.
How'1l we know where they are?
Grand Central Tower has 'em on their model board -- we can see every move they make. If they stop anywhere before South Ferry we'll know about it.
We'd better put some men on all of the emergency exits just in case. I'll check back in when I've found a squad car I can use.
Wait a minute! I think I just figured out how they're gonna get away!
I'm listening --
They're gonna fly the train to Cuba!
What do you want me to do, for Chrissake? -- the goddam power's still off ! You' llr have to move them by bus -- what do you mean you don't have any buses?! -- go hiiack some! He slams the receiver down, then notices Prescott looking down 'at him.
What's going on, Prescott -- do I get my trains back now or don't I?
You don't -- not yet.
Jesus! Do you realize that in less than an hour the goddam rush hour starts?
Will you shut up and listen? I've got a new set of instructions.
I don't give a rat's ass for your fucking instructions! I'm not doing anything to help the killers of Caz Dolowitz! Prescott reaches into his pocket, removes his service revolver and, grabbing Correll by the chin, pushes his head back and places the muzzle of the gun into his eye.
If you don't do what I tell you, Frank, you'll be having dinner tonight with Caz Dolowitz.
Your attention, please -- in a moment we're going to start moving again. You will all remain seated and quiet. We expect to release you unharmed in a short while, but until then you must continue doing exactly as you're told. Come along, Mr. Green. He heads for the motorman's cab, Green right behind him. The Pimp looks at Grey for a moment.
Hey, dude.-- long as you goin' downtown anyway, you mind droppin' me off at Fulton Street?
Smart-assed nigger --
You pretty, smart too, baby -- long as you holdin' that piece.
Will you please?!
Green all the way down.
Go ahead then.
This is gonna hand 'em a jolt, you know -- moving before they expect it.
Go ahead, Mr. Green. Green edges the controller forward and the car responds.
Featuring Marino who is staring up at the Board.
Holy Christ, she's moving!
Come in, Grand Central Tower
She's moving.
Who's moving?
Pelham One Two Three
Mat?! Since when?
She just started.
Hold on --  Sol -- she's moving!
Who's moving?
Who the hell do you think?! Pelham! What's she doing now, Grand Central?
Still moving -- pretty slow, but no sign of stopping.
It's too goddam soon! We're not set up yet!
Which is probably why they did it. You heard from Daniels yet?
Yeah. He's in a squad car on Park Avenue South. Try him on seven-
 Daniels -- ? It's Prescott --
I read you, Prescott -- what's up?
She's moving.
Who's moving?
What's the matter with everybody?!. How many hijacked trains we got around here?i
You mean Pelham? But they're not supposed to do that yet -- how far have they gone?
Grand Central -- ? RADIO They're coming up on the 23rd Street Station.
Oh shit, I'd better clear the cops off that platform. Signing off.
All right, everybody -- listen to me! They jumped the gun on us but we're gonna.stick right with 'em. That means every single person in every department's gonna shake his ass, do you get that?
Don't worry, Lieutenant -- it's shakin',
We're coming in to 23rd Street.
Keep it steady.
I'm still in switching -- can I push it up a notch?
No -- steady as she goes.
SHOOTING through the windshield. Ahead, the 23rd Street Platform is drawing nearer -- and there is a CROWD waiting, many leaning over to look uptrack at the approaching train.
Jesus -- look at 'em hanging over the edge. When I was a motorman I had nightmares about them falling off in front of me.
Pelham One Two Three passing 23rd Street Station --
Continuing slow, at around five miles per hour -- what they call the switching position.
Prescott -- ?
Go ahead, Daniels.--
I just had a terrible thought: what if they're not on the train? What if they set the throttle and jumped off? While we're chasing the train they're sneaking out an emergency exit somewhere behind us.
Ingenious -- except for one thing: it's impossible.
Why?
A.little gizmo called the-dead man's feature. It was built into the controller handle in case a motorman should ever drop dead. It has to have a man's hand pressing down on it at all times in order to work. Otherwise the train stops cold.
Yeah?
Nice try, though. But in case
RADIO you're- still worried, I was just about to call them. I'll let you know if I get their answering service.
Command Center calling Pelham One Two Three -- CAMERA PULLS BACK to include Green and Blue.
What's going on? The track isn't clear to South Ferry yet -- how come you're moving?
Slight change of plan. We decided to put some distance between us and all those cops you had hidden in the tunnel back there.
If you keep moving you're gonna start running into red signals. I don't want you to blame us for it.
We'll be stopping soon. Just get back when you've cleared the rest of the track. Signing off. '
Do you think he's figured anything out? All those questions --
Perfectly natural under the circumstances. They're thinking just the way we want them to.
Look sharp now -- it's coming
Blue and Green are straining their eyes against the darkened tunnel ahead.
Do you see it?
It's that white light about a hundred feet ahead.
All right -- this is close enough. Green starts to apply the brake.
She's shut down again. Pass it along.
This is Command Center --
She's stopped again, Lieutenant -- just below the 18th Street Station.
Gotcha, thanks.  Daniels? Come in, Daniels this is Prescott --
This is Daniels.
They've stopped again. Where are you?
Just crossing 17th Street.
Pull over -- you're right above them.
And then what?
It's up to them. I'll get back to you.  Pelham One Two Three -- this is
Come in, Pelham.One Two Three this is Prescott calling -- can you hear me, Pelham One Two Three -- ?
Ignore him -- he'll get tired and quit after a while. Let's get this stuff unpacked -- there isn't much time. They are unbuckling the straps and unfolding the canvas bag, then attacking the zipp`rs.
Come in, Pelham One Two Three --
You mean before this railroad is so totally fucked up that it'll take a goddam computer,to put it back together?
Right, Frank, that's what I meant.
Five or six minutes. I've got a snag at Brooklyn Bridge.
EMPTY_LINE
Yeah, Clive ---
Something's going on down there -- I haven't the faintest idea what but I'm gonna go'over and join Daniels at 17th Street. Come on up here and take over on the radio -- but don't tell 'em the track's clear until I check in with you. I don't want them starting up again before I get there.
form with a molded, hollowed-out area on one side. It is clearly heavy enough to require both of Green's hands to heft it. CAitIE A PULLS BACK to reveal him, grunting, setting it over the controller handle which it fits perfectly. Blue stands by, watching.
Perfect fit. Blue now hands him a length of pipe, some six inches in length. Green takes it, fits one end into a socket on top of the gimmick, facing toward the windshield, and screws it in. Then Blue hands him his submachine gun. Green looks at him for reassurance.
Go ahead. Green attacks the windshield with tine stock of the gun, opening a great splintered hole.
Get it all -- it's got to look right. Green uses the gun's barrel to scrape around the edges, clearing away the last traces of glass. Blue now hands Green another length of pipe -- this one about three feet long. Green fits one end over the protruding end of the attached short pipe -- not screwing it, merely fitting it. The other end extends straight out the glassless windshield.
Try.it once -- make sure it comes away clean. Green yanks at the long pipe and it separates from the shorter one.
Perfect. He reattaches it.
Okay. Now j um_ down --- Ill hand the other oiece through. Green leaves the cab.
Make sure its tight.
I did.
Come on back in. Green returns to the storm door c There Brown extends his left hand and pulls Green back up into the car.
It's all set to go. I only wish we were.
Don't worry -- ten minutes from now we'll be free and clear.
This is the Borough Commander, Daniels --- what the hell's going on?
Not very much at the moment, sir --- they're sitting down there and we're sitting up here.
That's swell. What are you trying to do, starve them out?
No, sir -- but it's their move. 7e're just waiting for them to make it.
All right --- keep me posted. As Daniels hangs up the mike the rear door opens and Prescott sticks his head inside.
Daniels?
Who the hell are you?
Prescott.
Prescott? I thought -- I don't know what I thought. Get- in. Prescott climbs into the back and closes the door.
Anything happening?
No. They're still down there. If the street collapsed we'd probably land right on top of them.
 Prescott to Command Center Garber?
Yeah, Clive -- the tracks been clear for a couple of minutes. Can I call the hijackers?
Let 'em know. And let us know when they start moving. 
What do we do -- wait or get started? If they ever get up to speed we're.gonna have trouble staying with them.
Command Center to Pelham One Two Three -- come in, Pelham --
That's not Prescott --
Even stars have to pee. Just letting you know the track's clear -- all the way to South Ferry.
Thanks, Command Center. Give Prescott our regards.
You can do it youraelf -- at the arraignment.
Over and out. He gives the mike a strong tug and-snaps the wire.
I want this train moving in thirty seconds. Tell Mr. Brown and Mr. Grey they.rcan cut the emergency brake cords. Green leaves the cab. Blue examines the gimmick one last time, then follows Green out.
Including Grey who is cutting the brake cord at the other end of the car. Now, submachine gun in hand, Brown opens the front storm door, crouches and drops out of sight. Then Grey starts for the rear door, hesitates, returns to the Hooker and bends to whisper something in her ear.
You and what army? Snickering, he returns to the rear door, opens it and disappears. At the front of.the car, Green backs out of the door, closing it after him, and is helped down to the roadbed by Brown from below. Only Blue is left. He holds his submachine gun easily cradled in one arm as he moves through the car.
You will remain in your seats. Don't try to get up.
You mean ever?
I mean remain seated. He has reached the rear, walking backwards, and now gropes behind him for the door handle.
Aren't you going to tell us what a great bunch of hostages we've been? Blue doesn't answer as he opens the door and backs out onto the metal landing. Then he closes the door and drops down to the track. The Passengers, left alone, look at one another uncertainly.
All right, Mr. Green -- Green, a hand on the protruding pipe connected to the controller handle inside the Motorman's cab, now grabs it with both hands and pushes inward, toward the train.
They said to remain seated -- I
I'm a police officer -- ! He slides open the rear door of the now-rapidly-moving car and dives out, leaving the Passengers even more confused.
Let's move along, gentlemen -- there's no time to waste. You all remember the drill. What's wrong, Mr. Brown?
What did it look like?
I don't know -- a shadow -- could've been a person -- I'm not a hundred percent sure I saw it.
 Want me to go check?
 Forget it -- there's no time.
Mrs. JENKINS' VOICE Grand Central Toner to Cozna.nd Center -- Pelham One Two Three in motion --
-- passing 14th St. station and running. Speed approaching 35 miles per hour.
We're right on top of her.
It doesn't make any sense -- they know we're monitoring their position -- that we've got to be following
So?
So it's dumb.
Whoever said crooks were smart?
But these have been -- up to now, that is. They haven't made a single mistake. I tell you we're over-
All right, we do it exactly as we did in the drill -- by the numbers.
Drills, numbers -- it's all chicken- shit. Why don't we just do it?
Shut up and do what you're told.
They set them down on the roadbed.
Hats, glasses, wigs and mustaches -- They remove their disguises anal we see their faces for the first time.
Can you imagine? That beatnik being a policeman?
Hippie -- they don't call them beatniks any more.
They don't call them hippies any more, either.
How can they let policemen dress like that?
He's also dead, most likely. We were moving pretty fast by the time he jumped o,;t.
They're trained to do that.
Jump headfirst off a subway? Shiiit.
Where do you think they're taking us now?
Don't worry -- they'll let us go pretty soon. The Hooker has been looking around with growing anxiety and now, she stands up.
You dumb bastards -- can't anybody count?! They all four got off.-- there's nobody driving the fucking train! There's a moment's silence as everyone digests this news. Then the Mother screams.
Remove your coats -- turn inside- out -- and put back on. He looks off.
Gun -- gotta find my gun --
They remove new hats from their coat pockets -- Grey's a powder blue low-crowned golfing hat; Brown's a grey with short upturned brim; Green's a grey Russian astrakhan; Blue's a brown cap with short visor.
Remove gloves --
Pelham One Two Three reported halfway, between Astor Place and Bleeker, speed increasing --
Christ, they're gaining on us!
it has something Co do with that short move they surprised us with -- from 28th to 17th St. --
What does?
Their scheme -- it's tied up some- how with that move -- it has to bet But why'd they do it?
I give up.
To get away from the cops in the tunnel, that's what they said -- all right, why not? Suppose they were doing something they didn't want anybody to see?
Like what?
 Like getting off the train. Daniels --- turn around, we're going back.
Including Daniels.
Like hell we are.
They're not on the train -- I'm sure of it!
Look, Presoctt -- I'm the one who suggested that in the first place -- but you shot me down -- something about a 'dead man's feature" --
They figured out how to beat it -- that's their aanl,, -- that's what they started with! Daniels considers for an instant, then turns to the Driver.
Turn it around -and burn rubber!
Blue, Green, Brown and Grey.
Check handguns in coat pocket --
They each remove a snub-nosed pistol, check it, then return it.
Remove magazines from submachine guns. All of them pick up their submachine guns but only three remove the magazines and then place the guns back dcwn again. Grey merely watches the other three,. continuing to hold his gun under his arm, a slight smile on his face.
Did you hear me, Mr. Grey? Disarm your gun and put it down so we can I get out of here.
I'm not leaving it -- it goes out with me.
Put it down, Mr. Grey --
What if something's gone wrong? What if they're waiting for us up there? I want more'n just a dinky pea-shooter!
Nothing's gone wrong. The plan depends on our walking away un- noticed. You can't do that carry- ing a submachine gun.
I won't just carry it -- I'll hold it under my coat --
This is crazy! Do what he says so we can get going!
You're leaving your gun here, Mr.
Oh my God -- Brown watches with a detachment bordering on disinterest.
I What about his money vest?
Mr. Green will put it on over his own.
Me? Why me?
You're the thinnest one -- it'll show less. Hurry up and undress. Mr. Brown -- help me with Mr. Grey. They start to work on the dead body as Green starts undressing.
She's passing Canal St.,.doing around fifty miles per.
That's a,pretty good clip -- I hope they know what they're doing.
My friends -- please -- the situa- tion isn't as lousy as it looks --
Just a little lousy's good enough for me.
I never knew these things went so fast.
We're going to be killedl
No -- no we won't! I admit that right now we're on a run-away train, but it's only temporary -- The car careens into a curve and sways wildly as the metal wheels scrape and screech. There's a good deal of scream- ing and shouting from the Passengers as several fall down. The Old Man starts to topple but the Pimp steadies him.
Thank you, brother.
Ahelluva lot you know --
But I do know -- I've been riding the subways for over sixty years -- I'm an expert!
Why don't we cut all this crap and beat down that goddam door, for
It isn't necessary! They got something called stoppers or trippers or stickers or something
OLD MAN like that -- so whenever a train goes through a red light these things automatically stop it.
(looking cut the
There's jest one thing, baby --
They all green.
SHOOTING straight ahead from the-front of the train. Nothing but green lights ahead as the train races along.
You'd better be right about this,
Come on -- i
I'd never make it -- I
I -- I'll wait for you -- 1 Blue looks at him fora moment, then checks his pistol and, slowly, steps out from behind the pillar. A shot rings out immediately and the ricochet off the pillar zings loudly. Blue calmly fires twice at the muzzle flash.
Did you hit, him -- ?!
Quiet! He listens again, then leaves his pillar, and hurries downtrack to the next where he again waits and listens,
As before, SHOOTING straight ahead from the front of the train. Still nothing but green lights.
Where are the goddam red lights?!
There aren't any!
We're not stopping -- we're going to be killed! i OLD MAN There's gonna be a red light -- there has to be!
And what if there isn't -- ?!
Mr. Green -- ! It's all right! Go on up -- I'll be right with you -- !
You were on the train. Are you a cop? Almost imperceptibly, the Hippie nods -- just once.
Then the Mayor will come to your funeral. X He lifts his gun to aim and fire and the Hippie manages to turn his head away. Then there's a shot -- and Blue crumples to the ground, dead.
I'll have an ambr lance here in no time at all, Miss -- every- thing's going to be all right.
My God -- look -- 1 !
We're going too fast to make it -- I The train rushes into the curve and then, as the wheels 1 start to screech, a red signal comes into view -- and CAMERA ZOOMS IN on it.
I told you it would stop, didn't I?
You win, pop.
Forty-secon' stree' aw'ready -- ?
What about the train?
Stopped itself just past South Ferry. Everybody's okay.
On our side -- two' dead and a long- haired cop on the critical list. Their side?
Three dead.
And don't forget. him He indicates the back seat with his thumb. CAMERA PANS to pick up Green, sitting sadly, staring at nothing in particular.
-- Maintenance -- you got those trippers reset yet? -- well, it's
about fucking time! -- Nevins St. Tower -- the South Ferry loop's open again, repeat, South Ferry loop open -- Opera ons, this is my last warning -- if all your cops aren't out of the tunnel at 16th St. in thirty seconds I'm gonna run 'em down -- what? -- well, why the hell didn't you say so?! -- to all Motormen, to all Motormen -- resume normal routes and schedules, effective immedi- ately! He shuts off all his lines and sits back, looking around. His RELIEF MAN is standing by.
Okay, Augie -- I'm givin' you back your railroad -- full ser- vice restored -- try and keep it that way, will you? 711 .He rises wearily, takes his coat off the back of his chair, and <<;atches as the Relief Man slips into the seat.
Great job, Frank -- great job. Correll nods and starts out. Y
It's gonna be pretty dull around here tomorrow, Frank -- what're you gonna do for an encore?
Bring charges against that nigger cop. He waves and starts off, across the large room. The others watch him go.
With that mouth he eats? The time is SUPERIMPOSED:
I believe he's awake now --
including the Hippie in bed and a NEWS CAMERMAN standing by. The Mayor is wrapped. in a heavy overcoat, a woolen muffler and a fur hat with ear-muffs.
Congratulations, Patrolman --
Berry -- Robert G.
-- Patrolman Berry -- all right if I call you Bob? You performed an act of extraordinary valor, Bob -- the people of the city of New York are in your debt.
Shake his hand, Nate -- The Mayor reaches out to shake hands, but the Hippie is too weak to lift his -- so the Mayor picks it up from atop the covers and pumps it. A flashbulb pops from the Photo- grapher's camera. Then the Mayor sneezes again.
Splendid work, Berry -- the De- partment's very proud of you. I've already put you in for pro- motion.
So long now, Bob -- hurry up and get well, will you, fella? And congratulations again.
Thank you, sir -- I only did what any other man on the force But they're already moving toward the door.
He looks better than I do -- probably feels better, too. The Hippie's eyes slowly close as he goes back to sleep. The time is SUPERIMPOSED:
Know what's gonna go next? The Empire State Building.
