a sad-eyed basset hound, sits on the floor watching, a bit perplexed. This is WALTER and even he knows this is weird. The dog looks over to...
Momma, come play with me. In my room. But her mother keeps painting across a door.
Right now, mommy, okay? BARBARA looks at her, or rather through her. And continues her task. RACHEL steps forward, tugs on her mom's
I got a idea, we could-- -- and gets , , splat, right-in the face with the brush
A TOY AMBULANCE sits on the floor. RACHEL's tiny hand deliberately presses a button on it. The TOY responds with a wheep whe ep siren, then:
Hello? It's my mom. She's doing some... some wrong things. She's doing wrong things, so, and, you should come.
Rachel? Rachel, are you okay? She keeps staring off, watching her mother being stuffed into the ambulance.
Momma! She starts towards her, but the OFFICER holds her back.
Honey, she just has to go somewhere, to get some rest, so she'll feel better. As the AMBULANCE pulls away, RACHEL catches a glimpse of her mother in the rear windows, watching her.
is your dad around? When's he get home from work? I don't have a dad. The POLICEMAN collects himself.
Okay. Then we're going to take you someplace nice, with a family, a really nice family, till we get all this sorted out.
She breaks free, races into.
She spins, frightened by the door that closed behind her. To her left... A WINDOW crashes shut, startling her. Then, like a wave moving in a circle around her, another WINDOW bangs down, a DOOR slams shut, another WINDOW. Scared, RACHEL backs into
where she finds WALTER huddling and cradles him in her arms. The CLOSET DOOR swings shut, sealing her off from the world.
In the dark, RACHEL is in a fetal position on the floor, dry eyed, in shock, curled around her puppy. There's the far-off sound of POUNDING on a door.
Wrapped around her upper arm is an elegant THORN BAND encircling a HEART, either protecting or imprisoning it. There's a knock on her bedroom door.
Rachel. c et up. You're gonna be late again. She rolls over, blinks awake. She's beautiful, with sensual lips framed by raven black hair.
joy.
BLACK. A SUPER burns in:
Graveyard shift, again.
 Daytime, yes; nighttime, no. We've been over this ground. I only brought him in this morning. No juice?
We're out of a lot of things.
 You watch that voice in this house. While you're here, you'll respect her as your mother, and treat her as such.
 Sorry. She picks through her cold cereal in silence.
Your mom's making progress isn't she, on the new medicacions, the tricyclics?
Yes, ma'am.
Yes, sir.
Later, Walt. On WALTER, bummed.
She speaks. She opens her mouth and sounds come out. The sounds are words. LTA gives her a Cheshire cat grin.
What's wrong, fcscer-dad bein' a pain again?
Why are you so weiz.ly happy?
o I look any different?
Do you look any...
Yep. With who?
You'd never believe me if I told you. I'm bringing him to lunch.
C'mon. ' 1 Fess up.
All will be revealed in due time. RACHEL pulls out a worn Anne Rice paperback from her ba gives it to LISA.
You suck.
I love you too. Simultaneously, they bite their thumbs, then press them together; a pantomime of blood sisters.
Hi there gruesome twosome, how 'bout a threesome?
 Lunch. Meet me in the parking lot.
a courtyard with concrete tables where the school's royalty hold court. The cleancut "Patio People" are the jocks, student government types and others who have no idea what it is to be alone on a Saturday night. At the patio is a pack of muscular jocks in football letter jackets reading "Bulldogs", some sport caps marked "Dawgs: There's JESSE RYAN, handsome, longish hair, a young Eddie Vedor if Eddie ever played football. Next to him is... MARK BING, good looking, with a body like a fist. Behind them, arrayed around a concrete table are the large, doltish BRAD, hearty rich boy CHUCK, and the arrogant ERIC. CHUCKS looks over a plain looking GIRL on the Patio.
 Hey, Mark, the girl over there, how many if I do her?
She was having a bad hairday. A group of PATIO GIRLS sit at another table. Among them is MONICA, a stunning brunette, AMY a cute redhead and TRACY, an icy BLONDE who could spend all day checking her makeup. JESSE looks over. TRACY graces him with a smile and turns away. MARK leans in to JESSE.
Hey, Jess. Tracy, she wants you, man. Jump her bones.
Yeah, whatever.
What's the matter with you, she's got an ass stamped "Made in Heaven
I don't know, you ever have a conversation with her? It's like talking down a well. She only wants me cause I'm on the football team.
So what? You want her to want you cause of your dazzling personality? Look, you want someone to talk to, you got us. H, you screw.
That's harsh, man, keep it down.
What's a coyote date?
When you wake up in the morning, and she's sleeping on your arm, and the only way to get up is to wake her. So you gnaw your arm off instead. BRAD snorts a laugh. A goatee'd ENGLISH TEACHER nods to both camps as he passes.
Hello Montagues, hello Capulets. A BELL goes off and the STUDENTS start filing into school. LISA waves the tips of her fingers to RACHEL, bye-bye. RACHEL looks over, catches a glimpse of JESSE, across the line of demarcation. For a piece of a second it seems as if he's looking back. She drops her head, walks away.
Okay, then how many saw the movie? A show of hands, all the girls, some of the boys.
Now, how many read the play?
A few tentative hands, including JESSE.
I thank you for your honesty, but I am saddened. I'd like to think we're here to study William Shakespeare, not worship at the altar of Leo DiCaprio. Scattered laughs.
I was going to calk about the language. But since you haven't Z&&d the language, let's talk about the plot.
Romeo and Juliet, a tale of two lovers meant for each other, pulled apart by their families, society, and, some might say, by fate.
What are some other stories with this theme?
You meair like in Dumb and when the girl's husband showed up? The TEACHER surrenders to the inevitable.
Okay, well. Perhaps at some level we know that Lauren Holly's husband AIM to show up? What say? Anyone?
Believe in what?
Love. JESSE looks at her, pensive.
 Love is fifteen seconds of squishing noises. Unquote. Johnny Rotten. Scattered laughs. JESSE overhears TRACY as she nods at RACHEL, whispers to AMY...
Who would love her?
Do you think that all love stories are tragedies? I mean, unless they die at the same time, all lovers are eventually separated by death.
Well, then Romeo and Juliet isn't a tragedy, because the only way they could really be together was in death.
Very good.  A foul cynic, most cliche.  A true romantic, how refreshing. Kids scoff at JESSE, but RACHEL eyes JESSE, struck by this side of him. The BELL rings and ARNIE leads the exodus.
Food!
Next assignment, Brave New World, the book, not the TV movie.
LISA ascends several flights, still brushing the wall, exiting onto the...
She walks past a TRIO OF STUDENTS smoking near the roof's edge. Without slowing or blinking an eyelash LISA simply..
Did you see that?
You'd better come with me, a girl just killed herself in the lot.
Corns. Come with me. Let's back off. One step. Good. Let's back away. PULL BACK to see the widening circles of shock as the students of Bergen High realize what's just occurred.
 Was she a friend? This is a place where you can calk about it.
It's okay. Let it out.
 I never cry. Miss Snell? She was so happy this morning. I don't understand. Why would she-- The INTERCOM BOX squawks:
Ms. Snell, would you please come to the principal's office? Ms. Snell, please come to the principal's office.
You stay here as long as you need to. RACHEL nods. SUE moves to the door and exits. Leaving RACHEL alone, looking all of five years old.
The board of education has given us these procedures to follow. I want every teacher to read this aloud in their classrooms in ten minutes. Do not digress or become overly emotional or dramatic. His VOICE under...
Then I'll ask you to identify any students who may have been Lisa Parker's close friends and therefore may require additional counseling.
No memorials. No assembly. We want a return to the normal life of the school. what do we not want?
Then let's go with the drill. A TEACHER reads from the prepared statement to her class.
One of our students died today. -- A FOREST -- Glimpses of RACHEL running through the trees. -- SUE at a microphone, reading from a sheet of paper:
We will observe, at exactly two p.m... -- Her voice emanates from an INTERCOM BOX high on a classroom wall. STUDENTS bow their heads.
.a moment of silence.
Lisa Parker may be gone, but she will not be forgotten by her friends.
She will not be forgotten, by her fellow students, her teachers, and her school.
She looks at her hand. It's trembling and still covered with LISA's BLOOD.
Yes, baby, I really am feeling so much better. I feel so good on the inside, I must be glowing on the outside.
You look great, mama.
Lord, you come all the way out here, we can't keep talking about me. How are you? I wane to hear every little thing I'm missing.
Things are really great. Last night I, um, I had this slumber party, with some girlfriends. And this morning, Mrs. Wallace made us all pancakes before school.
The Wallaces sure are a nice family.
 Oh, they are. A nice family.
What's wrong?
Nothing, I just... I miss those crepes you used to make me.
Oh, honey, those.crepes weren't nothing but watered down pancakes.  Come here baby. She gives her daughter a big hug.
Now you listen to me, the doctors say I'm doing well. You know what that means? That means someday, soon, you and I are gonna be eating crepes for breakfast, lunch and dinner. For the first time, RACHEL's smile is genuine.
That would be so great.
 Oh, I look at you, remembering what you were like at five, at ten...  All I need is a little Loving Care for these grey hairs and we'll make up for all the time we've lost. ooks at a wall clock)
Now you get going before you're late for work.
Yes, mama.
C'mon, c'mon. Let me out! The door buzzes and she shoves through.
Backfield in motion. PULL BACK TO -- Pub decor with football paraphernalia everywhere; Bulldog lamps and paw prints painted on the floor. The bar's packed with local BUSINESSMEN. JESSE, MARK and the other BULLDOGS are in a corner booth. A.middle-aged, bearded WAILER with half his face bur -SS-arred approaches.
Boys, what can Z get you?
Hey, Al, we'll have three 1.rge pepperoni pies and two pitchers of beer.
, Three large pizzas and cokes all around.
He scored two touchdowns on you last time, dude.
Yo, Jes$, I think Tracy's following you. He pulls out the black NOTEBOOK. ERIC eyes it, gets very nervous.
Now then, according to the scoreboard Jess, you'd have to bag every girl here to catch up. You need the points. I'll give ya ten for Tracy.
Do her, Jess.
 Do her, do her, do her. d the others join in.
All right, all right. ERIC leans over to MARK, urgently whispers, and the two of them move to...
 When Lisa asked me to lunch, she was actin' like were on the road to marriage or something. I told her to wake up, she was just a pump, a nut.
And she freaked and took a header.
And now I freakin.'. The Notre Dame scout's comin' Friday and it this gets out, I mean, sex and suicide? Catholic schools frown on that shit.
No one knows 'bout you and her.
Lisa took a picture of me with. her.
Shit. Okay. I'll handle it.
How?
Eric, relax, its me, Mark. I'll handle it. The WAITER sets a pitcher of soda and cups on the table. AT THE BAR -- MR. STARK, a rotund lawyer in his 40's, takes a pitcher of beer from the BARTENDER.
I don't see nuthin'. STARK strolls to the booth with the pitcher in hand. He sits, hiding the pitcher below table level.
Hello, boys.
Hi, dad. STARK winks, takes MARK's empty cup and fills it with beer below the table.
Great game last week. All of us on the town council are awful proud. He hands MARK the cup under the table and takes JESSE's cup. The PLAYERS smile at each other.
So, the Bulldogs bringing home the state championship again this year?
Absolutely. We're gonna crush Carlin Friday and make it seven years in a'row.
That's what I like to hear.
 It's good to be king.
What is it?
Sorry, didn't scare you, did I? RACHEL turns, slides LISA's PICTURES into an envelope. MARK checks her out, likes what.he sees, nudges JESSE.
You're... Rachel, right? She nods, surprised he knows she's alive, much less knows her name.
I'm Jesse.
Uh-huh. The true romantic. MARK leans over JESSE, his voice low now, intimate.
So, Rachel, there were some pictures Lisa took. They have, what you might call sentimental value. She just stares at him. MARK pulls a twenty from his wallet.
Twenty bucks cover it?
No.
What do you mean? I'll go thirty.
They're not your pictures.
Well it's not like she's gonna be picking them up, is it? RACHEL turns away. JESSE glares at MARK.
Hey, cool. it.
 Rachel, why don't I come by when you get off and, you know, take you for a ride? JESSE cocks an ear for her reply, but she doesn't answer.
C'mon, I don't bite... not unless you want me to.
I don't think so.
Why not?
Let's go, Jess. The car pulls away, MARK glances in the REARVIEW MIRROR at RACHEL, framed like a target.
 Bitch. I'll show you funny. ON RACHEL -- watching them go. Seconds later, a SHERIFF'S CRUISER pulls up.
Hi. He holds out Lisa's PHOTO STUB. RACHEL takes it, sees the name, her eyes widen.
I'm sorry, it's not you. its me.
It's okay. You should save your energy for the game anyway. JESSE opens the door, stands outside, tucking in his shirt. MARK and CHUCK make a crude humping gesture to JESSE. He hesitates, then nods at them. MARK pulls out the SCOREBOARD and enters JESSE's name with TRACY's and the number 10.
He shoots, he scores. ON TRACY -- in the front seat, using the rearview to adjust her makeup, pleased with what she sees. She glances at JESSE as he re-enters on the driver's side.
What are you thinking about?
Nobody.
I asked what, not who.
Oh. Nothing.
Doesn't it bother you that a girl offed herself today?
Why? She wasn't anybody.
What?
I mean, I didn't know her.
.and the spoons and dishes stop vibrating.
 Daddy's home. She walks to her bedroom and closes the door.
Come back here, mutt.
Your dog got out. Better get'im.
Walter! And she breaks into a run. WALTER looks back, starts running, this is all fun for him. There's the low BLEAT of a TRUCK'S HORN and then... The high, piercing SQUEAL of a wounded animal. In the road, WALTER, laying flat, keening in pain. She runs to him and in one continuous motion SCOOPS him into her arms. RACHEL, in the middle of the two lanes. She turns as.__
approach, fast.
Help me! Please! It speeds past, dangerously close. Another set of LIGHTS.
Stop! Please, stop! But the CAR passes, blaring its horn. She spins,around. is bearing down on her. She holds her ground.
THE CAR'S WINDSHIELD -- CRACKS, crazes, as if it hit with a sharp, fierce projectile. THE CAR -- lays down rubber as it screeches to a halt. JESSE is at the wheel. Sees through the crazed windshield: RACHEL, splattered with dog's blood. He gets out, stares at his'windshield, shaken-up, groping for some explanation.
Damn. What... damn. RACHEL staggers up to him, holding a shivering mass of fur.
Oh, my god.
It's my fault. He should have been in bed with me.
Everything's gonna be all right. His voice is not entirely convincing.
His name's Walter. will he be all right? The VET's intensely focused on inserting an I.V. into the dog.
You two had best wait outside.
Let's go. Best thing's to let her do her work. JESSE gently guides RACHEL away, who keeps looking back at her dog.
Your dog's gonna be okay. She nods, unconvinced.
God, I almost roadkilled you. Are you sure you're all right? She nods. They hear a muffled, "pmt", from the VET in the examining room. JESSE tries to take RACHEL's mind off it.
That tattoo on your arm, its pretty. Hurt a lot when you got it?
some.
Yeah?
But it's... you know, like the song says, you hurt yourself to see if you can still feel.
For what?
For making you--
No problem. Glad to help, you know.
And I'm sorry about your windshield, about your car.
How bizarre was that,, huh? Anyway, wasn't your fault.
You can be sorry for things that aren't your fault. The VET enters, drying her hands. RACHEL sits up, bracing herself for the bad news. JESSE puts an arm around her seat back, getting ready to hold her.
Walter's banged up pretty bad, lost quite a bit of blood, but he's gonna make it.
Can I see him?
Come back tomorrow, any time after eight.
Better. You don't look like a mass- murderer now. She smiles, sips a coffee. A country song comes on the jukebox.
Wow, this music. Guess we should just count ourselves lucky it ain't Hanson.
 Lisa hLUd them.
She was a friend of yours? She nods.
really sorry.
Sometimes I'd see someone, from behind, and I'd know, I'd just know, it was Lisa. And then she'd turn ound, and it wasn't. But sometimes, you know, it was. And now...
 Wow. It's late. "ve got football practice tomorrow.
I know. I hope I didn't ru;.n
No, if it wasn't for you I wouldn't have had this nutritious medl,
You're very polite, for a jock.
The compliments, they just keep on comin'. He drops some money on the table.
I don't have any--
's cool, I got it. Can I give you a Et home or something? I can walk
Yeah, right.
Or hitchhike.
Right.
He pulls up in front of RACHEL's house and kills
Thank you. For everything.
I guess I'll see you in school tomorrow?
Sure.
You'll let me know how Walter's doing?
Yeah.
Good night. He extends his hand. She takes it. 3i2! The SHOCK of static electricity. Their words are simultaneous.
Dry weather.
Acrylic sweater. They both laugh. Then go quiet. Then just stare at each other. Then the moment is gone. RACHEL gets out of the car, through the gate, back inside her house. JESSE watches her go. Starts his engine, and his car
Lisa don't! Somebody stop her! Stop! SLOW MOTION -- LISA falls through the air towards the car, arms outstretched, hair trailing like black flames. SMASH -- she goes through the windshield, but the face is
"For a moment, I thought someone was actually seeing me. But it was all a lie..."
"Eric lied when he said I was special. And I guess I was lying to myself when I believed him." He folds the note.
Rachel, is there anything in there that strikes a chord for you? Do you know what Lisa was referring to?
 Yesterday morning, she told me she'd, uh, lost her virginity. KELTON looks at SUE, produces the photo of LISA with ERIC.
You recognize this boy?
Sure. Eric Stark. He's on the team. KELTON gestures to SUE and they step out into...
with another "Heat Carlin!" banner in the background.
What do you think?
Robbie, I had a Freshman crying in the hall last week. I couldn't get anything out of her, but her friend told me a football player slept with her, then dumped her.
Nothing illegal about breaking a girl's heart.
Eric's 18. Lisa was 15. That's statutory rape.
That's a stretch.
Then let's make it. I don't know what's going on around here, but if that's what it takes to stop it, let's stop it, before someone else's daughter kills herself.
All right. I'll look into it.
SUE sits behind her desk, with RACHEL before her.
How are you feeling?
okay. Fine. Can I go no SUE opens a file on her desk.
I was looking at chic last night. it says here your mom's in Arkham.
She's gonna be fine.
I spent some time up there. As a patient. RACHEL looks surprised.
Does that surprise you?
I guess. I mean, you seem pretty normal.
Thanks. i try. You visit your moat often?
Is that scary for you?
Why?
Well, children of schizophrenics sometimes live with the fear of it happening to them. At your age, it's perfectly normal to be afraid of turning out like your parents.
Normal, huh? Get real, I know I'm ten times more likely to get it than most people.
You're right. I'm sorry. So. You've been in a series of foster homes since you were, what, four?
How's your foster family?
They're happy, - 'z-rig as they get their check every month.
What about your real father?
Never met the gentleman. My mom won't even tell me his name. RACHEL stares at a ceramic MUG of coffee, very close o the edge of the desk.
Rachel, in a way, you've lost your mother. And now you've lost a friend. Losing someone can be a very lonely, painful place to be.
I really do care. How can I show you that I do? RACHEL is silent, staring at the MUG.
Rachel? But RACHEL's shut off, pushing down a storm of emotions.
You know, this room is a place where if you have feelings, you can talk about them. You can let them out. RACHEL shifts. SUE sees RACHEL's forearm near the coffee MUG. And, as if by proximity alone, it EDGES off the end of the desk -- And FALLS -- RACHEL catches it in one smooth motion just before it hits.
sorry. I must've knocked it. SUE, the color draining from her face.
I didn't... see you knock it.
Sue, could you update the absentee lists, see who we have to call?
Hi. How's Walter?
What do you wane from me?
I just wanted to, you know, see how you're doing. Over his shoulder she can see the stir his presence aC Freak Hall is causing among...
Look at Jesse, talking to a burnout. TRACY turns, slips on a stylish pair of DKNY glasses.
She's not very good in daylight is she? wonder where she keeps her coffin.
So you'll meet me tonight, at the
--yeah. Okay.
 Okay. See you. Tonight. ARNIE sees the Patio Girls glancing at RACHEL. She sits an ARNIE nudges her.
What'd he want?
He asked me out.
What'd you say?
I said, "Okay, its your funeral."
Pardon me, but is hanging out with jockboy such a hot idea? I mean,
I heard he's dating Tracy Campbell, who is giving you the look of a thousand deaths right now. RACHEL casually turns to take in TRACY, then turns away. Her heart sinks.
She's beautiful.
Duh.
All right, as you can see from last year's tape, the Carlin Cougars are a tough, physical team. So Friday, it's gonna be kill or be killed. COACH WALSH, a charmless John Wayne, stands near the TV. The BULLDOGS sit on benches before him. On the VIDEO -.- MARK misses an easy block. WALSH points.
Here, we can see mark Sing kissing an opposing player good-bye. There are hoots of derision from the other PLAYERS. MARK nods. ERIC leans into MARK, speaks low.
You didn't get the picture?
Bitch wouldn't give it to me. Stay frosty, no one else knows anything. It's still at the photomat, I'll get it.
You two ladies back there gossiping? No, sir.
Excellent. Then you can give me fifty when we hit the field.
C'mon girls, those are love taps!  Potter, show me you're a dog.
Aww, coach.
You know the drill. The other PLAYERS begin a BARKING CHANT. CHUCK strips off his helmet, jogs to the bench and opens a styrofoam cooler, within it are slabs of raw steak on blood soaked ice..
Show me you're a dog, Potter. The barking rises as the PLAYERS psyche up CHUCK, who chews off a bite of the raw meat. JESSE whispers to MARK...
I hate this bullshit.
Not me. I love it. MARK pops up, grabs a steak, rips off a bite, and runs full tilt at the, blocking tackle, smashing into it with meaning.
You're a piece of work, Bing. MARK takes a bow as he jogs away, chewing. He spots the SHERIFF's CRUISER pulling --p to the practice field.
on the sideline, SHERIFF KELTON is talking to ERIC, who's sweating bullets as he fiddles with his helmet. MARK watches ERIC, so intent he bobbles a ball thrown to him.
So, you're saying you never met or talked to Lisa Parker?
No, sir. Never. KELTON produces the photo of LISA and ERIC.
ERIC blanches. MARK watches KELTON leading ERIC away with WALSH.
What happened?
Relax, that's bullshit. Your dad's a lawyer, he'll kill that talk dead.
So I'm suspended. And Coach, Coach he up and does this scene where he says, "give me your helmet."
What about Carlin?
What about Carlin? Game of the year, football scouts are gonna be there and I'm gonna be sittin' on the bench with my thumb up my...  You said you were gonna get the pictures.
I tried. That Rachel bitch wouldn't give'em to me..
She's the one who put me and Lisa together. Shit. what are we gonna do, Mark?
Who's place is this, again?
Nimrod. It's Carlin's quarterback. MARK and ERIC pull up in Mark's Mustang convertible.
jy are going to be late. She hears her doorbell go off.
What'd you forget your-- There's nobody there.
As she crosses back to her room. There's a KNOCKING on the kitchen back door. She frowns, goes to the back door, looks through the glass. No one there either. Now she's worried.
Oh, god, oh, god. Not now. Stop Suddenly all goes silent. She jumps as... The PHONE RINGS near her. She scoops up the cordless. Beat.
Hello?
Who is this?
who is Wig?
Knock it off. Is this you, Arnie?
Ding, ding, ding. Wrgnq, guess again.
What do you want?
 You. The JIGGLING and the TAPPING starts up again, loud. The BOYS VOICES are heard outside chanting...
Rachel! Rachel! Rachel! MARK Rachel, come out and play now. RACHEL grabs a knife from the kitchen, backs into...
where a bandaged WALTER is on the bed, looking alarmed. RACHEL keeps backing up, nearing her open closet door.
I'm calling the police. She hangs up, dials 911, fumbling with the knife.
No! The WINDOW SMASHES down on the intruder's HAND. There's a muffled YELL outside and the HAND is extracted.
Hello? Hello, :Ma'am, you still there? RACHEL slowly moves to tier bedroom doorway. BOYD comes in the front door.
What's wrong?
Nothing. She retreats into her bedroom, looks at the Window. The PHONE RINGS in her hand. She answers.
Don't go tellin' stories about my Eric. Click and the line goes dead. She hangs up. The PHONE RINGS again. She doesn't answer.
Hello... just a second. Rachel?
curled on her bed with WALTER, calls out:
I'm not here.
Okay. Thank you, then. He hangs up. Checks his watch. Waits.
Carlin creeps! At Freak Hall, ARNIE rises, wipes egg yolk from his hair.
Hey, what happened to you last night? I waited.
You tell me what happened last night.
What? ON RACHEL and JESSE as she tells him what happened last night. He gets more and more agitated. TRACY is wearing her glasses as she and MONICA watch JESSE from the Patio.
What is wrong with this movie: does he see in her?
Come on Trace, you're caviar, she's cheeze whiz. He'll come around. He's just letting little Jesse do the thinking for big Jesse. BACK TO -- A pissed-off JESSE.
Okay, don't worry, I'll talk to Mark, I'll take care of it
All what?
I mean, guys like you are supposed to date girls like Tracy.
I'm picking you up tonight. We're gonna have a nice, mellow date. RACHEL stands, silent, torn. The BELL RINGS, everybody starts filing in.. She moves, he smiles, blocks her way.
I'm not going anywhere till you say yes.
 All right. Okay.  Yes. JESSE lets her pass, with a chivalrous after-you sweep of his hand, then falls in next to her. RACHEL'S arm is grabbed by...
What are those, tonight's Top-Ten list?
These are just an exercise that will let me know how to help you better.
You're wasting your time.
Just answer true or false to these statements.  "There's a man inside the television set who tells me what to do."
False. I don't see the point-
"Sometimes my thoughts assume the form of a giant insect."
This ddesn't make any sense.
Answer true or false and this won't take all day. Again: "Sometimes my
False. She sets down the SNOW DOME.
"If you want to play the piano well, you have to practice."
True.
"I can see sounds and hear colors."
False.
"Large furry animals crawl on my face every night while I sleep."
True.
I have a dog. SUE nods, watches RACHEL closely as she takes her time with this one, not reading off a card.
Sometimes I can move things with my thoughts. Beat. RACHEL stares at her, a million thoughts racing. Another beat. The only sound is the clock ticking on SUE's desk. RACHEL grabs her backpack and stands.
Honey, sit down. I just want to hel
--and fuck you. You're not my mother! RACHEL turns to go. SUE jumps up, grabs her arm, and...
on the desk EXP DES, splattering water and white flecks all over the desktop. RACHEL looks at it. SUE stares at it, her worse fears coming true. As RACBZL flies out the door.
What was that? 'hat are you, Miss Manners? Show me you're a dog, Ryan. JESSE looks at the styrofoam cooler on the bench. A few of the nearby PLAYERS begin their barking chant.
Can't, Coach.
Say what? The barking trails off. The other boys are stunned.
Oh, shit.
Well, I'm not a dog today, Coach, I'm a vegetarian.
Since when? Don't give me that. Show me you're a dog, Ryan.
Sorry, Coach. No can do.
Your attitude sucks. Hit the showers. Get outta my sight. JESSE doffs his helmet, jogs to the bench. He douses his head with water, sits there, looking angry.
Brad, how many points he gonna get for straightening a dyke?
Twenty, no, thirty. They fingertip high-five each other.
Jess, you score the skank yet? JESSE just glares at him, walks away.
What's with him?
Must be that time of the month.
Jess, what's the matter?
You. What's with the stunt you pulled last night?
What? Papering McCabe's house? I asked you if you--
What you did at Rachel's.
what? We were just sendin' her a message. JESSE slams his locker closed.
Tell me, I'll pass it on.
Look, man. She's getting Eric in all kinds a shit. I mean, if he gets charged with rape, there goes any
Screw Eric, he's a big boy. He made his own decisions, he's gotta live with 'em. And stay away from Rachel, or deal with me.
What are you getting bent for? She's just a burnout, a slut-- BANG as JESSE shoves MARK against a locker. MARK shoves him back. The rest of the PLAYERS in the background go quiet.
 Don't call her a skank, don't call her a slut.
What's wrong with you?
We screw with girls, use them, because it makes us feel like big men--
Get to the bad part.
What are you talking about? We're friends, we're all friends.
No. We just grew up together. And he walks away. On MARK. Pissed. He sees JESSE left his letter jacket behind, hanging on the locker.
Mama, what was it like? WhEn you started to... when things went bad. What did it feel like, what did you see?
Did you see things move by themselves? Please, mama. I have to know.
 Well, first, I thought I saw the devil in your eyes. Then I started to see people's faces looking... deformed, like they'd had plastic surgery, or the bones were moving under their skin.
There is something different about you. Baby, are you all right? Yeah. Yes. Everything's fine. Everything's gonna be all right.
A BUZZ and as RACHEL leaves, she smiles at. sitting on the couch. BARBARA shifts slightly, looks at a CHROME CHAIR across from her.
July. June. May.
is illuminated from below by the view screen. And now: She stops on a NEWSPAPER front page: CHAMBERLAIN RECORDER. May,-1976. With a PHOTO of C ' RIK W iITE at age seventeen. The headline identifies her as the girl thought responsible for the arson at Chamberlain High School which killed 73 people. The text below the photo states that ga1nh White is the ,father of Carrie White.
grabs her forearm. SUE jerks. Looks up.
The library is closing.
I'm here to see Barbara Lang.
Stay here, I'll get her. SUE looks around. This place holds a lot of bad memories. DOCTOR NELSON, SO's, an overworked-underpaid psychiatrist approaches with a smiling MALE PATIENT.
Suzy? Suzy Snell?
Hello, Doctor Nelson.
Suzy Snell, one of my rare success stories. What brings you back?
I'm visiting the mother of one of my students.
I heard about the good work you're doing at the high school. The PATIENT turns and softly starts thudding his forehead against the wall. The DOCTOR casually pulls him away before he can harm himself.
Thank you for the chocolates. Thoughtful of you.
Mrs. Lang, why didn't you ever tell Rachel who her father was?
Wasn't important. Why was it important for her not to know?
Why would she need to? Hrs. Lang, I need to know who he was.
sorry, that's private.
Mrs. Lang, it's important that I know his name.
I really don't see how that's any of your business.
I promise you, I'll keep the information in the strictest confidence. BARBARA just looks at her, chewing.
I'm just trying to help Rachel. She seems very troubled and I'm worried about her.
I am. Yes.
You don't have children, do you, miss?
No. No I don't. BARBARA laughs. almost hysterically. SUE's thrown. BARBARA regains herself, then, with tremendous conviction...
Then you don't kzgx. You will never ever know, how terrifying children can be. SUE, frustrated, it's like punching water with this wo
Rachel needs my help. She...
So they are half-sisters.
That's my dad's dealership. Y all that will be mine.
You are good. I'm impressed.
My foster-dad taught me on his semi truck. Where we going?
Before he sold cars, my dad wanted to write this book: One Hundred Senators Pick Their Favorite Restaurants.' So, he wrote, to all of them.
All of them?
Dear Senator So-and-so, I am writing a book.
Anybody answer?
Yes. No. Sort of. She laughs.
He got two letters back. one was a form letter which said, 'Thank you for your support.'
And the other?
The other was from Hubert Humphrey.
Who?
He was the vice-President once. He wrote back a three page letter, raving about a place called Wally's Burger Hut. My dad was knocked-out.
So your dad wrote a book, color me impressed.
He never wrote it. Or he was going to, and then my sister was born, and then I was born. And there was this car dealership, and it was security. So your dad wanted to be a writer. How'd his kid end up being this sweaty armpit jock?
And you like that.
Yeah, I love it. Except. My dad. He's got my life all mapped out. He wants me to take over the business.
What's wrong with that? Sounds like a nice life.
Selling used cars is not what I want. And, unless I nail that football scholarship,' that's what I'll get.
It's not so great. Sometimes I wish I could just be one of the shiny, happy people. Does that surprise you?
Everything about you surprises me. There's the soft pops of rain hitting the car as it begins to drizzle, then it comes down hard.
He had a talent. You. You got football. It'll get you outta this place. You can make your own path after that. Write your own book.
Yeah? Want to come with me? She smiles. He leans forward. And she pulls away-, afraid, then decides to let him. They kiss. Then she pulls away.
What?
This... She indicates the gear shift.
is poking me right in the ribs. JE55E's eyes flicker to the back seat.
Um, I don't know how to say this.
Yeah?
But I've never...
Oh.
And, I'd want it to be special. Like you ring the doorbell, with flowers in your hand.
Right. So... what's your favorite flower?
--later. She pulls away, exits, closes the door for the--
suddenly sink into the flesh of JESSE's chest. She SCREAMS as she tries to extract them,. but strips of his flesh stick to her like flypaper. RACHEL twists violently as her torso melds into his. Their bodies fuse, a grotesque apparition with four legs and two heads. Her mouth presses into his as their faces merge. The ring of fire leaps inward, consuming the bed.
So, you're coming to the game, right?
I don't really get football.
C'mon. I need you, for good luck.
All right. I'll be there.
Good. I have practice today, but I can pick you up later, seven thirty?
Sure, go practice. Go be great. Live the life you want.
What kind of life do you want?
Well if you can't, I'll do it for you.
What do you mean?
I will predict your future.
Uh-huh. Can I get a hint?
'm in it. ON THE PATIO -- are TRACY, MARK and MONICA, watching the.
If he's gonna do it, you know, be seen talking in public with someone else, he should show some respect.  He should show me the respect, at least, to be seen with someone pretty. Someone cool. Someone who counts. Amy or you, you know, ate. Instead, it's Its. And I feel...
Disrespected?
That's right. I wish there was something I could do to make him come to his senses. On MARK's face, a slow, insidious grin that seems to spread into eternity appears.
What?
Let's nail the bitch. Plan a way to screw her like she's screwing us. .TRACY, a wicked smile as she nods.
Where are you taking me?
There's something you have to see.
This used to be the school for the whole district. Chamberlain High. It was closed down in 1976.
There was a fire here that year. The night of the prom. Seventy-three people died. A few of us survived.
SUE stands on a pile of rubble, next to RACHEL. There's a haunted look on SUE's face.
I haven't really been here in over twenty years. But it feels like I've been back here every day since.
Happy homecoming. Can we go? This place is spooky. Gives me the creeps.
Do you know what happened here?
You just said. A fire.
What caused it?
They think a boiler blew up, okay? Am I gonna be graded on this?
Come on, you've heard of Carrie White.
 Everybody has.
And?
of a revenge-suicide thing. Elvis was her date and they escaped in a U.F.O. I know what happened to that snow dome, on my desk.
We both saw it. RACHEL looks at her, isn't going to talk about this.
I know everything there is to know about Carrie White. She did this. It began with what you did, with the snow dome. Then it got out of control.
It's a genetic recessive trait. The male is the carrier, when he combines with the right female, the trait surfaces in their offspring, usually in women. Like King's Disease, hemophilia.
What are you saying I have?
Its a trait, Rachel, you inherited. Telekinesis.
With all respect, lady, you're seriously bat-shit. I'm walking, back to the real world. SUE's voice is low, quiet.
Your mother told me your father was Ralph White. Carrie's father. It stops RACHEL in her tracks.
I don't believe you. She never told me, why would she tell you?
You need help-- Like what? Like they helped you?
Yes. No.
So then it's Arkham for me?
No. I can help you, get it under control.
You want to know what I'm feeling today? `Happy. Happier than I've ever been. So I don't want or need your help. RACHEL runs off. SUE follows, trips on the rubble, falls.
Rachel!
Hey.  Just wanted to say two things. I'm sorry. Maybe I overreacted.
Don't play with me.
I'm not. We've been friends since we could both pee standing up. And I thought we'd be best friends forever.
 Keep going.
I'm sorry.
I'm not the one you should be apologizing to.
You're right. I'll come up with a way to make it up, to b of you.  tryin', brother, I'm tryin'.
You're not really thinking of pressing charges against my son.
We're doing more than just thinking.
I need the boy for the game.
Robbie, we've known each other a long time, since you were a Bulldog.
Save it, Lou. Sue Snell told me there were other girls--
Those kinds of girls know what they're getting in to. Eric's a good kid, he may be guilty of some youthful
Youthful transgressions? A girl killed herself.
Sit, everybody, sit, 'm just listening in. He leans against the desk, arms folded..
Go on.
He hasn't done anything other boys on the team haven't done. Eric can even get proof of it. Mark Bing, Jesse Ryan, Chuck Potter, Brad Winters.
Well. I think that about sums it up. He looks at the D.A., as if to give him his cue.
Robbie, I just don't think I have enough evidence to ruin this boy's reputation.
That's it, Robbie. That's all.
Lou, thank you for coming in. I'll walk you out.
Hey, man, I got it. This girl, this Rachel, is special to you, huh?
Yeah. MARK extracts a KEY RING from his jacket, pulls a KEY off.
The cabin. My folks aren't there. Get away from all of us idiots. Go have a romantic time. JESSE looks at him. MARK tosses the key, JESSE catches it. MARK smiles.
And bring her to my party. I'll show you we can be one big, happy family.
Finally, she's going into the mall.
 Perfect. We have the homefield advantage.
 You're normal. At the end of the counter, the PERFUME WOMAN approaches a SALESWOMAN helping MONICA.
Karen, watch the girl in black, make sure she doesn't pocket anything. MONICA turns around to see... RACHEL -- staring at a row of-lipsticks. She's startled
Can I help you?
Uh, just looking. The woman gives her a smile of devastating insincerity, crosses her arms and just stands there. RACHEL gets her drift. MONICA walks up behind RA
Oh, hi. Karen, this is a friend of mine from school. The SALESWOMAN nods, moves away.
Thought she was gonna frisk me.
She does Step Class with my mom.
What are you looking for?
Nothing. Just lookin'.
Is it perhaps, something to wear on a date? Perhaps with a certain jock- hunk we all know?
 No.
You know, Tracy isn't universally loved.
There's a shock.
Exhibit A. I think she's a Melrose Place superbitch. RACHEL cracks a hint of a smile.
You have great lips.
Trust me. See, Tracy tried to steal Brad from me. Now hold still. And RACHEL does.
So, he invite you to the game? Just nod. RACHEL nods.
Well, there's a big party after. I hope you can go. I know it would mean a lot to Jesse if we all got along.
Uh-huh.
Good. See? Checking in a mirror, RACHEL sees she's right.
Here, these two would also rock on you. The SALESWOMAN reappears.
Can I ring those up?
Um, sure. How much are these?
Twenty-two fifty. Each. RACHEL sets the lipsticks down. MONICA smiles at the
Maybe next time. Bye. She pulls RACHEL away. As they walk the SALESWOMAN keeps looking at RACHEL with distaste.
 Here, I kleptoed it for you. She slips RACHEL the lipstick.
She's burst/ dropped off! picked the fruit! realize! I'm naked / I'm naked too./ So cover rrry body/ dress it fine/ hide my linen and lace. She pulls on a silver, thrift-shop SLIP DRESS, moves a slee ve to cover her tattoo.
So fruit flower myself inside out/ I'm happy and bleeding for you / fruit flower myself inside out / I'm tired and bleeding for you... She slips off her nose stud.
What happened to that little thing you wear, that, uh... He gestures to hib'nose, indicating her stud.
Took it off.
Too bad. I like it. It's different. RACHEL looks at the car seat. On it are DAISIES.
It was nice of mark to lend us the place. He's really tryin' to make peace. Invited .s to his party. But we won't go if y;,u,d be uncomfortable.
No. Let's go.
Great.  What's wrong?
I feel like.., we're being watched. She looks up at the MOOSE HEAD's MARBLE EYES, reflecting firelight. JESSE drapes his jacket over the MOOSE HEAD.
Sorry, Bullwinkle, lights out.  Feel better?
Feel scared.
Funny. He too., He leans in to her. She backs away, like a skittish doe.
I'm sorry, I just feel... weird. I don't know. Oh, wow, I am really losing my mind here.
It's okay. Rachel, it's okay. It doesn't have to be tonight. Whenever you're ready. And, hey, you know what, you're the sanest person I know. And that's exactly what she needed to hear. She cups the back of his neck and pulls his lips to hers. They kiss; a deep, healing kiss.
brushes aside one of the straps to her dress,, which slips off her shoulder. JESSE tenderly runs his hand over her HEART-THORN TATTOO.
seems peaceful, holding on to JESSE like a child, they're covered by the chenille spread. Their sweat clings to them like the softest of prisons. He's awake, studying her. He gently runs his fingertips across her brow.
You were out all night. RACHEL nods, defiantly. He walks over to her and, without warning, slaps her.
You're grounded. No school today. You don't move from this room. He turns on his heel, walks out. The dog looks as stricken as she does.
Rachel needs help. She doesn't believe me and I'm afraid for her. I want you to tell her who her father was. Why?
She'll believe it from your lips. Mrs. Lang, I really need your help, before it's too late. I can take you to her. Will you help me? BARBARA slowly nods, yes.
Rachel, Rach, over here. Hey. Grab a seat. Looking around, RACHEL sees she's surrounded by Patio People.
Thanks, but...
Oh, please, you're.not gonna sit by your lonesome. There's plenty of room, if Amy;here slides her bubble butt.
We did it for the big game.
C'mon, Jess, you're up. JESSE stares in horror at how identical they all look now. Then he starts to... giggle, then breaks into laughter, turns and walks away.
Man, he'll ruin the whole effect.
No, no, it's an extra point when you score the kick after the touchdown. A safety is when you get tackled with the ball in your own end zone.
Thought that was a bunt. What?
I'm kidding, I'm kidding.
Okay, listen. Here's what Brad told me to say, doesn't matter if something good or bad happens, just say "You. gotta be fuckin' kiddin' mel" No matter what, just say that. It'll sound like you know what's going on.
on the sideline bench. He scans the crowd behind him, sees. A NOTRE DAME SCOUT, wearing a "Fighting Irish jacket, toting a clipboard. JESSE then spots RACHEL in the stands, gives her a reassuring grin. She glances at the SCOUT, smiles back at JESSE. TRACY sees them, is none too happy. SLOW MOTION -- A whistle sounds as a FOOTBALL is kicked to start the game. The BALL spins end over end until...
RACHEL looks like she's been kicked in the gut.
Do they have to hit him that hard?
Amy, Rachel's worried about Jesse.
Don't worry, i always looks worse than it really
TRACY and the other CHEERLEADERS leading a cheer as... JESSE glances at the sideline, where the NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL SCOUT watches him, writing notes on his clipboard. THE HALF-TIME SCOREBOARD and the BULLDOGS trail 7- On the sideline, MARK SMASHES his helmet to the ground.
Well... I understand you need to take out Mrs. Lang, to do a drug-abuse intervention with her daughter. But while she's doing well, her condition may be fragile.
SUE jumps to her feet to leave.
Hold on. You have a bunch of release forms to sign. I'll go get them. On SUE, sitting, knowing she-may be running out of time.
The Notre Dame FOOTBALL SCOUT writing notes as he watches... JESSE cutting across the middle of the field. He catches a pass, but two DEFENSIVE BACKS converge on him and he gets bone-jarringly plastered. JESSE hits the ground with such force his helmet flies off. For a moment, it looks like he's been decapitated.
Oh, no. RACHEL strains to see him as the team circles around JESSE.
Thank, God. He's okay.
THE SCOREBOARD CLOCK -- loudly TICKING from 0:09 to 0:07. JESSE -- running. He looks up to... THE NIGHT SKY -- A FOOTBALL silently arches up, spinning an achingly beautiful spiral in SLOW MOTION. THE SCOREBOARD CLOCK -- a booming TICK from 0:05 to 0:04. JESSE makes a spectacular one-handed catch on the run, streaking along the sideline. Ahead of him, a monstrous CARLIN LINEBACKER closes in on him with murder in his eyes.
Look out !
Ryan, Notre Dame scout's-here, wants to talk to you first. JESSE nods, turns to BRAD.
Brad, can you tell Rachel I'll be out soon? Have her wait for me.
It's gonna be a while, Jess is talkin' to the scout, he said for you to go ahead to the party.
Yeah.
C'mon, I'll give you a ride to Mark's.
No, this couldn't be it. Rachel said it was a real nice house, surrounded by trees, with a pool in the back.
I guess she didn't want to worry you.
They find WALTER, alone on the bed, blinking awake.
WIDEN -- to reveal a DANCING'CROWD in a dimly lit, split- level living room with exposed wooden beams. There's a large, roaring fireplace and a Jackson Pollock splatter PAINTING hangs opposite. Sliding glass doors overlook the backyard patio and swimming pool. CHUCK cuts through, sees someone jostle a table lamp.
Careful! Don't break anything, or Mark'll have my head on,a plate.
Hey, Monica, can ya get us into the party?
Sure, Arnie, wait here. I'll come back for ya.. . And she waltzes past him.
. in two or three years. ARNIE points at a passing RACHEL.
How come she gets to go in?
 To new friends. They raise their glasses and RACHEL joins in with a hesitant smile. Their glasses clink together for the...
Damn it. Under a pool of lamplight -- HIS CAR has had its tires slashed and someone has sprayed in red Carlin uies! across the door. TRACY pulls up in. her BMW, wearing her cheerleading outfit.
Oh, wow, that sucks. Further proof Carlin guys are gravy sucking pigs.
Yeah.
Need a ride?
You goin' to Mark's?
Wouldn't miss it. Hop in. As he gets into her car, TRACY has one hand on the wheel, the other hanging out her window. She drops something as JESSE closes the door. REVEAL a CAN of red spray paint TRACY dropped onto the parking lot's tarmac.
Just a quick stop at my house, want to change my outfit. Her car pulls off...
I really like your nail color.
Check out the tattoo on her arm wild huh?
Yeah. Did that hurt?
No. Well, yeah, actually some.
Oh, it's just too cool.
I'm dying to get one, but my mom would have a shit fit.
So would mine. She says I'm not that type of gi rl.
What type is that? There's an awkward pause which MONICA breaks.
A slut.  That's why you should take all of us in for tattoos! AMY and the other GIRLS laugh. RACHEL softens, joining in. She looks around at everyone at the party, laughing, dancing. The shiny, happy people. it feels weird, but here she is. She smiles, takes a sip of her drink. By the stereo, MARK cranks up the music as CHUCK dances over to AMY, pulls her into the dancing CROWD. BRAD grabs MONICA.
C'mon, wench, let's dance. He pulls MONICA into the crowd, and she gestures for RACHEL to join them.
No, I'd rather wait for Jesse.
Oh, c'mon, Rachel. He'd want you to have fun.
Yeah, c'mon, Rach. There's a chorus of "C'mon, Rachel" from the guys and some of the other DANCERS join in. An embarrassed RACHEL surrenders, sets down her drink and enters the dancing group.
All right, girl. RACHEL smiles. BRAD starts dancing before RACHEL. SLOW MOTION -- CLOSE on RACHEL's face, dancing, beaming. For a few moments, everything seems perfect. And she throws her head back and laughs. MARK dances into the group.
Hey, Chuckzilla, why don't you put on the highlights tape?
You mean tonight's game? MARK shares a laugh and a glance with MONICA and B
Yeah, tonight's game.
Okay. Let's go to the videotape: He dances out of the group over to the VCR where he pops out a tape and inserts a tape marked "Bulldogs Highlights". RACHEL turns around, sees the large screen TV PLAYING images of the Bulldogs playing football.
Is that tonight's game?
No, it's the other game. Still dancing, she turns back to the group.
What other game?
The game you were in. The others laugh. She smiles, confused.
What?
The one you played.
Yeah, yeah, what was the score? Chuckie, pass me the scoreboard, I wanna show Rachel how she helped Jesse win the game. CHUCK pulls the BLACK NOTEBOOK next to the CD's off a shelf, pretends he's a quarterback hiking a ball. Twenty-four, twenty-six, hut, hut, hut. He drops back to pass the NOTEBOOK.
Go long, Bradzilla. MARK laughs as BRAD circles around RACHEL, twists between other dancers. CHUCK tosses the NOTEBOOK over RACHEL and BRAD leaps up to catch it.
Post-pattern, Mark! Ducking around DANCERS, MARK raises his hands for the pass. KIDS start to notice their antics and start laughing. BRAD passes the book over to MARK who catches it, mimes spiking it for a touchdown and does a silly victory dance. MONICA laughs and turns to RACHEL, who laughs, even though she still looks a bit befuddled.
Rachel, catch! He throws the NOTEBOOK through the air, where it tumbles end over end for a few slow beats, then is caught by her.
Open it. Go 'head, read off the scores.
Start with Eric.
Yeah, start with poor Eric. She opens the book, looks at the pages with a quizzical expression. She sees the Bulldog names across the top of the page with lists of girls beneath each one. Every girl has a number next to her with a total at the bottom.
What's Eric's score?
Twenty-two? RACHEL stops dancing as she spots LISA PARKER's name at the bottom of ERIC's column with the number four next to it.
What's up, Rach? You know someone on that list?
 Lisa.
Oh, yeah, Lisa, forgot about her.
How many points was she?
Four. But maybe he shoulda lost those when she offed herself.
Rach, look under Jesses's name, how many points you get?
Who do we appreciate! RACHEL looks down JESSES's column sees-her name with thirty points next to it, then, above hers, sees TRACY with ten.
No, more than that, remember, we thought Rach was a dyke. He got extra-points for the conversion.
points? Try thirty. RACHEL stares at the book, stunned, trying to make sense of it.
Look at her face, this is priceless. At the front door, JESSE walks in, TRACY behind him. He looks around, hasn't seen what's going on yet. ERIC intercepts him, turning JESSE away from the TV.
Hey, man, what did the scout say? Behind Rte... THE TV SET -- between shots of players grunting, tackling and smashing into each other, longer and longer segments appear of...
See, we didn't think Jess could do i so he offered to get evidence, proof that he'd scored you.
Here comes Jesse's big play!
Lookie, lookie, Rachel. RACHEL realizes people are watching something behind her, then laughing at her. She turns and sees... The IMAGES of her and JESSE on the TV. Her face goes slack with horror.
Oh, God MARK leans in to RACHEL, who hasn't noticed JESSE.
Jess was disappointed with the picture quality, but I told him it was better than Pam and Tommy Lee's tape.
Rach, was it good for you too? Sure looks like it, don't it?
Why don't we ask Jesse? He turns and calls out.
Hey, Jesse! Over here! JESSE looks over and his eyes meet RACHEL's, but she just stares back, horrified. Then he sees the TV set behind her
What... JESSE pushes his way through the crowd, trying to get to RACHEL. TRACY throws an arm around him, kisses his neck.
He told me he was thinking of me when he fucked you.
Rachel... He tries to shrug off TRACY, but ERIC and CHUCK grab his arms and pull him back into the crowd.
Rachel! MARK pushes RACHEL towards BRAD.
Rachel! Rachel! She tries to get away, but BRAD pushes her into MONICA who shoves her to AMY as they join in the chanting. Rachel!
Rachel! Rachel! Drowning out JESSE's cries. RACHEL's P.Q.V. -- spinning around. A NIGHTMARISH GALLERY of dancing, jostling torsos, TWISTED FACES and LAUGHING MOUTHS, smirking and pointing at her.
of RACHEL and JESSE making love. The assault of music, chanting and images crescendo with... BRAD grabbing RACHEL's bare arm below her HEART-THORN TATTOO forcing her to face the TV screen.
Hey, is that a zit on your ass? RACHEL has tears streaming down her face for the first time since she was four years old. She bows her head.
Holy shit. He releases her. RACHEL raises her head, eyes glowing with pain and rage, her broken heart turned to stone., The delicate THORN VINE has grown across her chin, cheekbone and forehead, swirling around to end on her other cheek. A stunned BRAD backs away from her. JESSE breaks free of ERIC's grip, slugs CHUCK and pushes his way towards RACHEL. Her HEART POUNDS at an alarming rate as she slowly turns and sees JESSE coming at her, his arms out to take her in his embrace.
on the bar dances and rattles, then... A WHIP PAN finds... JESSE, as his back arches in pain and he screams. The KNIFE embedded in his open palm, nailing his hand to the wall. MARK and the other boys stare in shock.
What the fuck? ON JESSE -- as he screams again. A CORKSCREW has pierced his other hand, at waist level. The SCREW spins around, burrowing into his flesh.
RACHEL straightens up and... The kitchen door CLOSES... The glass doors to the back yard slide SHUT... The front door SLAMS.
FROM ABOVE -- The outer edge of the CROWD are mowed down as if by a machine gun and... A WHIP PAN -- Finds a BOY impaled by a large, jagged shard.
are splayed across a wall of KIDS falling to the ground. The hard-edged music keeps playing while... CHUCK's decapitated head rolls across the floor and onto... A plate. The BEEFY BOY spins around, clutcning at a shard protruding from his neck, his carotid artery spewing blood like a lawn sprinkler.
Reeling into the stereo, the BOY scatters CDs everywhere. On RACHEL, clothes spattered red, tears streaming down her cheeks. TRACY straightens up, having been protected by MONICA, who`s screaming, her face a lacerated pulp with glass, shards sticking out of it like a pincushion. Surviving PARTYGOERS panic as they struggle to their feet and try to flee, stampeding over each other. , TRACY, ERIC and BRAD shove their way through the crowd.
Oh, not Rachel! They race to the door as...
RACHEL sees AMY and her eyes narrow... MUSIC CDs fly off a shelf and... Spin through the air at high velocity. One of the deadly frisbees buries itself in AMY's back, spinning her around. More CDs embed in her stomach, chest and throat. MARK and ERIC smash their way through the chaos as MARK's eyes flash from a collapsing AMY to RACHEL
God, it'ls her! She's doing it! SUE moves towards RACHEL.
Stop! Stop it! RACHEL has her gaze locked on... MARK, who realizes he's a dead man. He moves toward a shattered window, through which some PEOPLE escape. But RACHEL turns her head slightly and... A TELEKINETIC PULSE travels across the row of LIQUOR BOTTLES at the bar, exploding them one-by-one, spraying alcohol which douses SUE. A FLAMING LOG erupts from the fireplace... Striking the alcohol-drenched BAR, setting a blazing trail and lighting the curtains on fire, creating a wall of FLAMES before the windows.
Stop it! You don't want to-- And RACHEL snaps her head around, launching another LOG from the fireplace which strikes SUE in the back, whose alcohol drenched clothes catch flames... and she , A.
No, this isn't happening. It isn't happening, isn't happening... MARK pulls ERIC by the shirt collar and they careen down...
where each of the DOORS ahead of them SLAM SHUT as they approach. Utter CHAOS, but RACHEL calmly turns into the hallway, following MARK, as if in a trance.
lowers his shoulder, crashes through a closing door into.
where the walls are decorated with deer heads and hunting trophies. MARK and ERIC are smashing a standing glass case containing pistols and rifles. TRACY leans panting against the wall. MARK slips a HANDGUN into his belt.
Screw that, get the shotguns! Shaking, freaked out, they gather weapons.
d ERIC see RACHEL the end of the hall, silhouetted from behind. They take off in the other direction, TRACY bringing up the re Barrelling shoulders first into a door, the boys burst through and into...
Wait till she's closer. TRACY tightens her finger on the trigger. RACHEL's eyes narrow and... TRACY's glasses shatter into her eyes, spewing blood milky fluid. Aaaaa... She staggers, fires her shotgun into ERIC's groin and he lands sitting next to the pool. A dying ERIC stares at his shredded lap, then falls over. MARK looks at his dead friend. Oh, shit. .recovers, and swings his aim back at RACHEL. But his rifle goes sailing over his head and into the grass twenty feet behind him. He makes eye-contact with a grim RACHEL advancing toward him, and hauls ass. RACHEL glances at a coiled GARDEN HOSE and it springs to life, slithering through the grass and across the concrete at high speed to wrap around MARK's ankle and trip him up. He hits the ground hard and rolls over to find the hose twisting around his legs and up his waist like a python.
grasps for the rifle, but falls short as the hose pins his other arm to his side, then curls around his windpipe in a stranglehold.
RACHEL looks down. MARK had pulled the handgun from his belt with his pinned hand and fired. She's holding her belly, gutshot, staggers and falls into the pool, disappearing amid a swirl of blood. MARK yanks the hose from his neck as it goes slack. He gasps, points the gun into the pool and FIRES until it's silent and he's left pulling the trigger on empty chambers. He gets his breatking under control, leans over to look into the water of the deep end. He Aar on the sound of a mechanical whirring, and turns. A POOL COVER starts to unfold. At that moment...
As RACHEL drags MARK down, he kicks and pummels her, but she holds on. The POOL COVER steadily closes over them, shutting out the light from above. MARK finally frees himself and lunges for the surface, but the POOL COVER blocks his escape. He desperately pushes at it, eyes bulging, lungs burning, as his feet kick to keep him afloat.
Rachel! A weakened RACHEL lays by the pool. She seems to be snapping out of her trance as she rolls over and sees BARBARA. RACHEL shudders and suddenly just looks like a wet, scared little girl reaching for her mother.
Mama. Maury? BARBARA'S P.O.V. o but it's a FOUR-YEAR-OLD RACHEL, pristine, without tattoos. BARBARA blinks and her P.O.V. is of a TEN-YEAR-OLD RACHEL, reaching for her. Mama, please. BARBARA blinks and it's now... The 17-YEAR-OLD RACHEL, covered in blood and tattoos. She looks her daughter in the eyes, backs away in terror.
What are you? You're not my little girl. No. The devil's in you.
Please, I don't have... anyone. She rolls onto her back, looks up at the STARRY NIGHT.
Please, God, let me die... And she tightly shuts her eyes.
He looks back at her.
Rachel, listen. I swear, d know they were taping us. d never hurt you. She looks at his pleading eyes.
The TV SET now has the video footage of...
.love you. JESSE tenderly kisses her lips. And all the TATTOOS fade from her face and body Love. Her face is serene. JESSE traces his fingers across her brow, embraces her, the flames start to encircle them, just like in RACHEL's nightmare. JESSE pulls RACHEL over the debris ridden floor toward the back windows, but stumbles and goes down. Her eyes flutter open.
Leave. Get out Instead of leaving her, JESSE hugs RACHEL closer. The sleeve of his jacket catches flames. And he accepts his fate. RACHEL shuts her eyes, gives one last TELEKINETIC PUSH...
A dejected ARNIE and the two uncool BOYS who couldn't get into the party, leaning against a van, staring in amazement.
Man, we are missing one killer party.
 Jesus. WALTER, Rachel's dog, hops on his lap, licks at.his face. The sad-eyed DOG whimpers'and,JESSE scratches him. In the distance the CLOCK TOWER BELL can be heard CHIMING MIDNIGHT: One, two... As JESSE looks down and his eyes widen in surprise: Somehow, he's scrawled on the notebook paper on the desk in front of him: kINg of HELL Or, if you only look at the capitalized letters, it reads: Around it, the same phrase is written over and over again: kINg of HELL kINg of HELL kINg of HELL kINg of HELL kINg of HELL kINg of HELL kINg of HELL kINg of HELL JESSE lowers the dog How did... Trails off as he stares at the page. The CLOCK BELL in the background is still CHIMING: give, six, seven and...
 Ssshhhh. Relax, boy. He takes a-deep breath, flips the page on the notebook, resumes his cram session. On the floor, the DOG looks at the open French doors, then scurries under the bed. JESSE is writing, in the MIRROR above h A WOMAN' s FIGURE anding in the French doors, her face hidden up, sees the WOMAN reflected, spins to watch her stop forward into the light. It's RACHEL, in hAk slip dress.
 Rachel. He rises, envelops her in his arms, and kisses her. He pulls back to take her in. T!!s two of thaw are reflected in ANOTHER MIRROR behind the r 's door. opens her mouth to speak --
He recovers, runs his hands through his hair. Starts reading. The DIGITAL CLOCK reads: 11:59 A.M. In the distance, the CLOCK BELL begins'chiming midnight: One, three... JESSE reads, but in his ayes he's waiting for the savant chime. The BELL CHIMES: Four The FRENCH DOORSNinat JESSE spins. The wind. Nobody there. He turns back to his reading, his heart BEATING WILDLY again. Glances up at the mirror. Nothing. His HEARTBEATS and the BELL CHIMES get increasingly LQ= as,.. . He reads, glances up at the mirror, shivers, and it isn't in the cold.
