Why can't we go directly in ...
The Captain enjoys not dragging his ass down the highway for every Tom, Dick and
Tricky.  Swedish-made.
Dammit.
Nobody at Command said anything about --
Exxon and Global Petroleum hired private contractors to do the work in '86, as
EMPTY_LINE
 Sergeant.
Sir.
MARCO
Yo Melvin.  You gonna play that hand, or hatch it?
We're moving out.
7     OMITTED 7  8     INT. HUMMER - NIGHT - TRAVELLING 8
MARCO
Why don't I ever ride in the Bradley with
 Trust me, sir, I don't wish to ride in the Bradley with the others, I'm just ...
-- Uh-oh.
Camels.  You gotta be kidding me.
Take the wheel, Sergeant!
EMPTY_LINE
MELVIN
16    OMITTED 16  17    EXT. MARCO'S NIGHT VISION GOGGLES: THE DESERT 17
24  25    THE ROCKET hits the Bradley Fighting Vehicle at a slant into 25 its exposed belly, and the truck EXPLODES -- Marco's team
: MAJOR BEN MARCO - DAY behind a podium, in his crisp dress uniform.  His current
Scared?
29    MARCO'S P.O.V. - THE HUMMER -- is no longer stalled on its 29 side in the ditch, but improbably is righted again, back on
30  31    FLASH FORWARD : MAJOR BEN MARCO 31
: MAJOR MARCO
EMPTY_LINE
MARCO Like Edmonds in Korea, Holderman in Viet
I was --
RESUME - AUDITORIUM - MARCO
MARCO
Yes.  Two.  Two of my people were killed.
Won the medal.  Been the hero.
It's Al Melvin, Sir.  Corporal Melvin. From your unit.  Desert Storm.
Melvin.  Jesus -- how are you --
Well, we had a pretty rough time over
Everybody has dreams, Corporal --
Not these.
No I don't.
It's bad, sir.  It's making me crazy.  I write it down, every night, after I wake
-- I've been to doctors!
-- here --
Go.
-- run, yeah.  But. 
Melvin just scowls sadly at Marco.  Flash of glass, a door
-- Thirty seven.
From the landing.  Every week it gets
None of these involve slave traders or sheiks, Abby.  I checked.
 What do I owe you?
 A smile.
-- no, the real danger is from suspending
EMPTY_LINE
Raymond?  Darling, what were you going to do, make me stand out there like room
helpful Ms. Freeman -- said you were up here practicing your speech. Honestly, I don't understand why you
company and yet here you are, holed up, as if you were some kind of emotionally
No.
No what?  Baby, I haven't even asked you a question.  Your hair is too flat.  And
Oh.  You're not interested?  I thought you were.  Did I miss my cue?
Of course I'm interested -- I wouldn't be here if I wasn't -- but not if it means
I'm sorry, for a second there I thought
blood rising -- and the stink of defeat made me nauseous.
ELLIE
Mother, you chased her away --
Raymond stares at her. ELLIE
One day, you will, I'm sure, tearfully memorialize me in your acceptance speech.
I'm wearing the one I have on.
44    CLOSE - CONVENTION PODIUM - NIGHT  44
 -- you all know my mother, Senator
TV45                      RAYMOND/T.V. TV45
not negotiable.  We need to secure tomorrow , today.        Ellie shakes her head fondly, and begins to move away as
Bluffing?
That was the inference.
They should be down on their fat white
The decision is final, Senator.  Tom Jordan is on the ticket.  We don't need
EMPTY_LINE
All the research indicates that an Arthur-
SENATOR WELLS
My son is a war hero.
Senator --
SENATOR WELLS
ELLIE
 I can swing that, and you know it.  I can
America is facing the greatest test of its history, gentlemen.  Not just from
that human beings are essentially Good ... and that Power is something shameful, and Evil. 
CPL. MELVIN IN 1992 TV50C
Sgt. Shaw?  Hell, he's probably the
The war hero who dedicated himself to public service after Desert Storm ...
-- the supertomato slowly bisects itself -- opening, oozing viscous red liquid -- revealing an inner structure far more
-- yet -- note the complexity of the
Those of you with ties to the Intelligence community may recall the
53  54    OMITTED 55    The Bedouin women begin to make a spooky trilling sound, 55 their ZAGHAREET -- as the mysterious woman's voice starts to MORPH into a MAN'S VOICE:
Street-corner schizophrenics with tin foil on their heads offer sad proof of
NOYLE
MARCO
Here, then, are ten subject soldiers in a
Our Candidate's course of treatment will, of course, involve considerably more
Not even in combat?
No ma'am.
Captain.
NOYLE
Whoawhoa -- wait -- wait a sec --
LT. COL. HOWARD
The meds make me ... spongy.  I float.
When I sleep, I dream.  I don't want to dream, sir.
I felt ... fine.  No big deal.
 Glad for him.  He deserves it.  Raymond
MARCO                           LT. COL. HOWARD
.  I'll see you in two weeks.
Yes sir.  Same time, same station.
61  62    OMITTED
No offense, Major, but it chaps my ass we
Sir, I'm just here to keep you from
The old generals laugh, appreciate this.  Marco stops --
Major Marco --
SENATOR ELEANOR SHAW
-- billions of dollars, thousands of troops, sacrificed on behalf of a
They oughta put up a crossing guard.
everybody matters.  Not just the people at this party -- no offense -- but the people who can't afford to be here.
You must learn not to let yourself get cornered by the bottom-feeders.
Including you?
RAYMOND
DONOVAN                         ELLIE
The plucky idealist.
Gentlemen, how's business?
Careful.  Any better, you'll be a
There's the challenge.  Maximizing the
Or a country.
Bullshit.  You guys are sea chum, ripe
 If you can't behave yourselves, Generals,
I know.
MARCO                           RAYMOND
I need to talk to you.
-- okay.
-- the political extortion you committed in order to destroy my vice presidential
Tom.
-- so that you might vicariously bask in reflected limelight from your son --
 Tom, please, just because the party felt
has found Raymond with Jocie -- outside -- but hangs back --
I've changed too.
-- But my feelings haven't.  Changed, I mean ...
Jocie, I haven't even been with another girl since we ... stopped seeing each
JOCELYN
I've got to go -- good luck with the campaign.
Marco slides in front of him with a disarming grin.
I want to talk to you too.
I saw Al Melvin the other day -- remember Corporal Melvin?
Okay -- sorry -- but -- Melvin, he's
ever touch me .        Beat.  Marco's eyebrows go up.
Sorry.
CLOSE - COLONEL GARRET
MARCO I don't know, sir.
 I think you hoped Congressman Shaw would
MARCO
-- No sir.  Something happened to us, in
COLONEL GARRET Have you contacted any other members of
Sir, I know I can't ask you to talk to Congressman Shaw, not yet, but Al Melvin,
dreaming -- and either he will support the credibility of what I'm saying, or he
And what is it you are saying, exactly,
If you just talk to Melvin --
into believing that Raymond
MARCO
Yes sir.
Congressman Shaw -- your rebuttal?
There are gaps in this country.  Ugly
icon -- it SLIDES away, revealing:
... the gap between rich and poor, between government and people --
... between what is real and what is not.
 Dontcha love this guy?
The weasel is a weasel.  Frog and Toad Are Friends.
Am I this predictable?
You have no idea.
Raymond's second line flashes with another call.
This compassionate vigilance thing is working quite well for you.  I might have
I happen to believe in it.
Of course you do.  Now Raymond --
ELLIE
EMPTY_LINE
Raymond Shaw ?        Beat.  Raymond's puzzled.  Cocks his head, eyes searching
RAYMOND
: Enter the bathroom, and go to the closet there.
Hello Raymond.  Do you remember me?
NOYLE
EMPTY_LINE
82    Marco listening to the phone on the other end of his call 82
83    Another call. 83 MARCO
EMPTY_LINE
86  87    OMITTED 88    BEAM OF THE PENLIGHT aimed down at pages filled with CRUDE 88 DRAWINGS OF BRAINS/TOMATOES -- number-gibberish (cross- sections, size and weight parameters, and growth sequences)
the same way --
... An incoming mortar shell kills both
EMPTY_LINE
FB91  FLASH: BOBBY BAKER FB91 -- as a bullet hole is punched in his forehead -- FALLING AWAY -- with a look of astonishment on his face -- blood
MARCO
sitting down across from him.  Smiling.
 Is this seat taken?
Maryland's a beautiful state.
This is Delaware.
Paper or plastic.
What?
ROSIE
Business?
No.  Guy I knew ... in the Army.  He's in politics now.  We've kinda lost touch.
'Scuse me?
MARCO
Thanks.
I guess your friends call you Jenny.
-- and LURCHING toward the back of the train, nearly losing
-- Marco's DOWN ON HIS KNEES, struggling to gather the pills together and put them back in the plastic vial.  The big man
ROSIE sinks down next to him.  Calm.  Deftly plucking the pills
I didn't mean to upset you.
EMPTY_LINE
Rosie, I'm gonna go in here, wash my face, take my pill, and get myself
all alone.  Losing his mind.
Hello Captain.  Do you remember me?
Are you okay, sir?              Ben?
ROSIE
Your friend gonna meet you here?
No.
ROSIE El Dorado 59970.
EMPTY_LINE
ROSIE
MARCO
Listen.  You got a place to go and get freshened up?
-- It's my cousin's apartment.  She's in
MARCO
MARCO
You'd be the best dream I've had in a
 Ben?
EMPTY_LINE
Ben, I need you to open this door.  Okay?
BEN MARCO!?
puts his trembling hand under the faucet, grips the thing
-- loses his grip on the oblong thing before he can even get a good look at it , and it goes into the sink --
SHIT.  Oh no NO ...
-- Gone.  Shit.
Marco closes his eyes.
Proof.
My sanity.
DELP
A dozen years ago, the Army did this tiny implantable I.D. thing -- you could imbed
The Army never put one in me.
That you know of, man.  That you know of. 
I looked under Mad Scientists in the
Ha ha.
You seriously believe somebody's messed with your mother board.
What are you studying here, Delp?
MARCO
Nah, CIA cut me loose in '97 during the
MARCO
We've all been brainwashed, Marco. Religion, advertising, television.
Congressman Shaw!  Why do you and Gov.
RAYMOND
MOVING WITH - MARCO
RAYMOND
Do you ever dream about Kuwait?
-- it's okay.  I know him, it's okay.
I saw Mavole's Mom and Dad in St. Louis. I still visit them -- and Baker's mom --
RAYMOND
EMPTY_LINE
No.
.  Forty minutes of your time. MIRELLA No to the interview, or no to six?
He wants to talk about my mother.  No He looks at Marco --
Private time.
Well, we've got about five minutes, right now.  And this is as private as it gets
It's a question of what actually happened
That's easy.
Yeah.
Doing what?
Saving everybody?
People just don't have the same dreams accidentally --
I don't have dreams, Captain.
I've been to doctors.
Okay.  Okay, I'm sorry.
 Captain --
EMPTY_LINE
Marco stops, turns. RAYMOND
, stacked against the wall.  A desk covered with papers and enough take-out Chinese food for ten people,
MARCO It's a dream --
No.
-- could be I'm just supposed to think                 you did.
-- I killed the enemy .  I didn't know them, either.  So it was okay.  And,
Maybe you didn't.
NO.  What a thought.
Life is so bizarre, isn't it?  This absurd campaign, the sordid world of
A Prentiss.  Ferociously, a Prentiss -- but not a Shaw, God forbid -- I was
EMPTY_LINE
EMPTY_LINE
Why did you come back, Raymond?  What happened?
What?
 Which?
The medal.  The cloying adulation of the little people.  Your pitiful jealousy --
I don't have the dreams, Ben.
How can you not remember saving the unit?
Ha ha, don't mix me up, I'm tired, and --
will happen, Ben, but I never get to the part where I feel that it actually
Did you ever talk to anybody about this
What?  No.  Who would I ask?  My old Army
I'm sure the press would have a field day with that.
Raymond.  They put an implant in me.  I found it yesterday.  Maybe they put one
EMPTY_LINE
I want to be supportive of you, Ben, I do, but --
Just check your back, Raymond --
Somebody was in your head, with big steel-
-- you don't even know what they did!
ANDERSON
Ben --
-- there -- there's -- something --
EMPTY_LINE
MARCO -- shoved to the floor -- twisted -- handcuffed --
NOTHING HAPPENED!
Because I feel sorry for him.  Because I
What should we do?  Make him a General?
Mother.  Look.  My campaign people are getting a restraining order, he's going
?                            RAYMOND
You don't actually believe his story?
Yes I think telling people you want to "round up all the towelheads and throw
ELLIE
Carpetbag steak.
Stuffed.  With oysters?
Oh, Raymond, how much do you really know
Al Melvin ...
Talk about what?
I wanted to talk to Corporal Melvin about some unanswered questions involving our
AGENT JONAS
What's your obsession with Raymond Shaw?
Man of his dreams.
I didn't have anything to do with Corporal Melvin's death.
Yeah, well, that's your opinion, but judging from your file here, apparently
-- He hit me!  Fuck!
Now .        The Federal Agents retreat with their bloodied-nose, cold- cocked colleague, door slamming behind them.
Evidently this has been going on for years ...
... Sad little Tin Soldier.
-- I don't care.
invited him -- to tag along. Knowing what they knew. RAYMOND
EMPTY_LINE
Goodbye. 
Shaw won't press charges, and he's got juice with important friends.  It's
Someone from Senator Eleanor Shaw's
A beat.  Marco, trying to process all this:
Major, you have reached the terminal end of the Army's patience.  You're relieved
MARCO
LT. COL. HOWARD
You sure you want to do this man?
Yes.
sits on one of the experimental gurneys, using a pen to
Manchurian Global.  Heard of 'em?
MARCO
How do you know all this?
Cuz they funded me to make some of their scary shit.
What does it do?
I'm putting you on a cocktail of methohexitol to take the edge off.
Edge off what?
DELP
Blank again?
Who?
MARCO
ROSIE
Rosie smiles.  Marco closes his eyes again and --
It's Wednesday.
MARCO
ROSIE
A long beat.  Marco stares at the t.v. as she sits on the
How did I get here?
You called me.
What'd we talk about?
 You said you "loved" me.  Not to scare
I remember that.
What else did we talk about?
JUMP CUT: MARCO
Ben?
Don't --
Now she's between him and the door.
Don't do this, Ben.  It's not what you
How can you know what I think?
-- he SMACKS Rosie sharply, stunning her -- and as she rocks backward he flies out the door --
BEN!
... Not to scare you.  Out of nowhere, but more than once.
I remember.
You don't believe any of it.
Noyle .  They called him Dr. Noyle.
145   TIGHT - COMPUTER STATION - ANOTHER SECTION OF THE LIBRARY 145
," "behavioral modification " ... a       QUICKTIME VIDEO that Marco activates, and --
I called the Pentagon.  They told me he's on medical leave.
Secret Service, they've got him on a couple of their watch and observe lists.
computer print out.
On the advisory board of Manchurian- Global, should they ever publish a list --
You bring me rumors and conjecture.
I started with nightmares, sir.  Rumors and conjecture are a giant leap forward.
Nightmares you've interpreted, using as primary resources a) your spotty memory,
MARCO
EMPTY_LINE
A cold silence.  Marco stares at Jordan.
I just want to try and stop this one thing -- this Raymond Shaw bomb -- from
151   OMITTED 151
Lies.  Fabrications.  Fiction.  You've been waiting to do this to me for, what,
No, I'll wait until Raymond gets here and
Get out of my house.
Raymond -- if you dare to use this --
 Your bipolar buddy has been sharing his
Hello Raymond.
Can we please not go down that road?
Do you recognize this man?
JORDAN
-- In his dreams .               -- brainwashed you --
Sir, Ben Marco is sick.  Delusional.
RAYMOND I don't understand.
At the time of Desert Storm, Dr. Atticus Noyle was working under a research grant
The color suddenly drains out of Ellie's face.
What?
 I don't -- I don't --
It's not about me.  As far as I'm concerned, this should never come out --
He can't prove anything.
Everything you stand for is upside down! If this were to come out, true or no, it
What do I do?
I feel sick.  Christ.  What have you done to me?
Raymond, remember when --
I never want to see you or speak to you
Raymond --
-- I mean it this time.
Sergeant Shaw --
Raymond Prentiss Shaw -- 
:   CRASH:
Who's that?
sloshes down into the water, wades out waist-deep --
-- the water must be freezing.  What are
?  Raymond.  Don't bother, I can -- Raymond catches the bow of the kayak, turns it.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, sir.
DADDY!
leaps into the water, thinking she'll help with a rescue.
trying to drown her father --
turns, grabs her by the hood of her sweatshirt --
TV163                     MEDIA ICON TV163
You trusted us to bring your son back to you, and we deliver.  We trusted you with
You didn't even ask us.  You needed to
Tom Jordan was going to destroy
Ellie stops, looks at him.
Bullshit. 
and the future of this country . My father, Tyler Prentiss, never asked. He just did what needed to be done.
Who'll -- believe --
-- he's a time bomb, ticking --
Listen to yourself.  You're a poster boy for paranoid fantasies.
frowning --
Raymond -- Raymond TURN:        DREAMSCAPE - AS BEFORE
Captain Marco, would you please shoot Private Baker so we can move on?
Aaaahhhhhhh --!
You okay?
Yeah.  Yes.  Bad dream.
Okay.
I was on the fence when I walked in there ... but then I saw my name on the ballot
I'm sorry.
RAYMOND I've been having the dreams, Ben.
That's good.
No -- you could have had me locked up -- and you didn't.  That's a sign.
Of what?
I know.
-- and the Senator.
Beat.
Did I do it?
Mr. Shaw?
All I've ever done is what I was supposed to do.  What I was told to do --
Raymond -- focus --
You don't think they saw this coming? You don't think they factored you in?
I want to believe we're friends.
I dream you, Ben.  You kill Private Baker.
MARCO
EMPTY_LINE
EMPTY_LINE
Is this Major Marco?
-- Major Bennett Marco --
Yeah ...?
Ezekiel Marco --        -- Marco's senses are quickening -- the light literally changing around him -- that terrible LUMINOSITY -- as --
-- Listen:
ELLIE The bullet will pass over your shoulder,
... because, of course, the assassin -- the deranged, obsessed, tragically
.                            RAYMOND
She runs her hands through his hair.  Tears fill her eyes.
-- when you ran away to join the Army, after that girl, after Jocie -- when you
Yes, mother.
How much you look like my father, now -- you have his hands, and you hold your
EMPTY_LINE
He closes the lighting room door.
He walks to the grid and peers through it --
", "Arthur Kids ", "Friends of Bob ".  Mirella Freeman has her "V.P. Shaw "; Gillespie, trying to look amused  his "Sen. Shaw/Veep's Mom " sign.
Okay.  Crowd cheering.  Much elation. The president moves to his mark --
210   OMITTED 210
A tiny island of worry in a sea of celebration.  The huge light grids ripple with patriotic bunting effects.
Dammit, Shaw missed his first position --
A241         Committed.  Almost serene.
Eyes wide -- realizing too late -- 242   INTERCUT - MARCO 242
calmly putting a clip into the handgun from his kit --
Jesus.  Jesus H. Christ ... Jesus H. Christ ...
... President-elect Arthur has vowed to bring to justice whatever nation -- or
You don't develop a technology like that
We know that.
I had to get to the water.
Nothing but water as far as the eye can see.
