 Hold on!
Coming!
Im so sorry. I wasnt quite ready for you.
Lady, you said this was a rush. I cant rush anything anywhere if you dont give it to me.
Its a plane ticket.
So it is.
For a date.  For my date. To my sisters wedding. In London.  Hes never met my family.
I hear that noise.
You need to let go.
Yeah.  Youre going to have to help me.
Thank you.
Im off duty. I do not exist. Dont even look at me.
Ive got a tour group from Taipei trapped in customs, a dead poodle in Cargo parked at T9, and a lost grandmother staggering around International asking for her mommy. Oh, and theres a guy on two who was stuck with his in-laws for a week because we couldnt get him out of Dulles. The in-laws arent speaking to him anymore and, for some reason, hes pissed.
I would love to help you. Sincerely. But my sisters getting married this weekend, I havent seen my family in two years, and my flight leaves in fifteen minutes.
You take Taipei. Tammys schnauzer just had puppies. Put her on the dead dog. Park reps with wheelchairs at every john in T8. If Grandma just got off a trans-con, shes gotta go sometime.
What about line two?
 I completely understand, sir. You just want your in-laws to see you the way you see yourself. Or at least the way you would see yourself if you didnt feel so victimized by them.
Hello? Calls may be monitored for quality control?
Huh?
Over-share!
 Mr. Rajagopal, we regret that you were snowed in at Dulles but snowstorms fall under a category called force majeure. Along with earthquakes, hurricanes, and floods. In short, were not liable.
 But just this once, Im going to refund the full price of your ticket and credit you 10,000 frequent flyer miles. Thank you for calling Virgin Atlantic!
Your first trip?
Hardly. My family moved to England when I was fourteen. My stepdads a professor at University College, London.  Im going back for my sisters wedding...and the best mans my ex. In case I chicken out, I want to know where all the exits are.
I dont believe in marriage. I believe in hot sex. Of course, that draws men to me like flies to shit.
Hello, my sweet darling.
Im not a knuckler. I fly all the time. In fact, I transferred from Heathrow two years ago and now I run Bags and Nags here at Kennedy, so things are going really well for me. The reason I cant feel my legs is that any minute, my date is going to walk in that door. And I need him to look really, really good today.
Oh, no. Hes here.
What do you think? Does he look hot, and is it the kinda hot thatll translate overseas?
Thank you, Lisa.
Hi. Hey.
Kat.
Lets sit.
Im glad you found it okay. The airport. The plane, I mean.
I really am sorry I couldnt leave earlier. I know you would have loved a few hours to settle in before the party.
Work must be crazy right now.
Ive gotta warn you, you know those families where everyones out of their minds but at the end of the day, theyre family, so you love them?  Mines not like that.
I love my dad. But since hes my stepdad, hes technically not family. Hes more like a hostage.
My seat belt, its....
 Please tell me youre not wearing that tonight.
Its no big deal. Really. It just looks like a tailor cut off a yard of my dress and made your tie out of it.
Dont get me wrong, matchings fine. Its matchy matchy youve got to watch out for.  This is matchy-matchy.
You think we look like were trying too hard.
Exactly. I want us to look like we fit, but not like were trying too hard to look like we fit.  Its welcome cocktails, not prom. With this level of matchy-matchy, we should be drinking peach schnapps under a bleacher somewhere.
Ill teach you a trick. If you look people in the eye, theyll never even notice what you have on.
What color are my shoes?
 You have feet?
I understand how important this is to you, but youre a beautiful woman and youve got everything in the world going for you. I couldnt care less what you have on.
Dont patronize me. Theyve clearly been at this a while.
Youre funny.
Yeah, but I feel like crap. And if you feel like crap, its way better to look hot while youre doing it.
Mission accomplished.
Really?  Dont get too attached.
I liked the red one better.
Ill let her know.
 I bet youre doing that girl thing, where you get undressed without showing any skin.
No, Im not. Howd he know?
Mmm.
Mmm, nice dress? Or mmm--  Gorgeous, I was insane to let you go!
Both.
Id do you.  I mean, if it was all right with you.
You know, they say you can tell everything you need to know about a person from the way they act when theyre naked.
 I dont do naked. My sister? She does naked.
You okay, hon?
Im not sure I can do this.
Youre never going to be sure of anything, but we still have to go inside.
 Baby love, my baby love.
Please, Mom. This is not the time to be yourself.
 And who might this be?
Im the new guy.  Its great to meet you.
This is a marathon, not a sprint. After welcome cocktails, youve got the hen party. Tomorrow, theres a picnic and the rehearsal dinner and since youve conveniently left no margin for jet lag--  I need you to hydrate, baby.
Dad!
Hi, kiddo.
Meet Nick.
Sir.
Im getting MARRIED!
I find a good, strong drink helps.
Can I get you a refill, sir?
 Im guessing MacCallum, 18 years.  Neat, with a water-back.
Is there any other way to take it?
Whered you find this guy?
The Yellow Pages.
Welcome, friends and family!
Sweet Jesus, who gave that woman an amp?
Victor and I would especially like to thank our out-of-town guests for coming to celebrate with us as we welcome Edward and the Fletcher- Wootens into our family.
Its funny. We always thought wed marry off Kat first. We came close once, but that crashed and burned.
Still, we had reason to hope. She was always one of the more active girls at the American school, and thats saying a lot.
Okay, okay. I get the hint! Anyway, imagine our surprise when Ed moved in next door and fell in love with...the girl next door. Our Amy. Lucky for us, he had no idea it was an unforgiveable clich.  A toast to the bride and groom to be. Congratulations, babies!
Thanks for, you know, with the piano.... It was really.... Hm.  I have to pee.
Why, Jeffrey. Hello.
Hello, Katmandu.
You look well, Gorgeous.
Seeing you again....
Yeah?
Kat Ellis! We live two hundred miles away from each other but I have to fly all the way to London to see you. You havent visited me once in D.C. Where the hell have you been? I have gynecologists that call more often.
You have more than one gynecologist?
Sure. Youve got to play them against each other. Otherwise they think youre easy.
Hey, asshole, since you dumped my cousin brutally and without cause, you wont mind if I steal her away?
You didnt have to do that.
I wasnt saving you from him. I was saving you from yourself.
Dont worry. Im so over him.  By the way, do you know if hes seeing anyone?
Why waste ten more seconds on the slimy limey when Mr. Tie-Me-Up-Tie-Me-
After Kats father died and I married Victor, I was so desperate for my little girl to love him. It never occurred to me that she might love him more.
Whats he do anyway?
Therapist.
I think I just came.
Can I have that?
You know what I love about all this?
Theres finally a reason for the whole world to revolve around you?
Exactly! Todays my day. Tomorrow will be my day. And the day after that? My day.
Hows the future Mrs.?
Perfect. All ginny.
Except its Scotch.
 But Im not taking your name, buster. Im a feminist!  I need icey! Mr. husband-man, get me more icey!
All right, then kiss me.  God, Im a lucky sod.
See what happens when you put off dance lessons til two days before the wedding?
Whos ever heard of dance lessons for a wedding, honestly?
Um, just about everyone.
You are taking the piss?
Well go with you guys tomorrow. I suck too. Itll be fun.
I dont even know you, hunky-dunky, and I love you already.
 Dance lessons. Right.
Hey.
Oh, hello.
A wedding is a sacrament...a joyous celebration of love and commitment.
Ah, a philosopher.
Shrink, actually.
Crikey.
What?
Nothing, nothing.
No, tell me.
You Yanks and your therapy. Its great.  Its all a bit too touchy-feely for me.
Its just, theres this girl I care for -- God, I suppose I could even say I love her -- and the bugger is, of course, shes here with someone else. Bollocks!
Here you are.
Hey, Kat.
Hey, yourself.  I see youve met my ex.
Did I interrupt something?
I was just telling Jeffrey how we met.
The Knicks game? We both wanted the last hot dog?
Oh, yeah.  So we split it. You know, as in share. People do that.
You hate sports.
Not when Nick explains them.
 Right. I should be going. Good to meet you. Perhaps Ill see you at the stag party. My place.  You know the address.
Well, he looks miserable. What were you talking about?
Love.
Jeffrey knows love like he knows macram.
He was pretty drunk, but I think hes still crazy about you.
Of course he is. Im here with my new man.  I love it! Your magics already working. Let the suffering begin.
The only one suffering here is you. You need to stop worrying about everyone else. You think you can do that?
No.
What did he say exactly? I mean, you dont think he wants me back?
I dont know.
What does your gut say?
Youre too good for him.
Well, here we are.
 Thanks again for having me.
Dont be silly. Its wonderful to finally meet you. Although, technically, I had no idea you existed because when my daughter turned twelve, she stopped talking to me, except when she needed money. So let me rephrase that.
Okay, Bun. Thats enough.
Wheres Nick sleeping?
Why, with you.
 My mother has a rule about men and women sleeping in the same room without a ring in the picture. She thinks its--
Huh?
 Im not as square as my daughter thinks.
She must have drowned her rules in the Chardonnay.
Sorry about the creepy room. I went through a painfully earnest Laura-Ashley phase.
Count it. Six thousand even.
I trust you.
No, count it, anyway.
Why?
Im compulsive and weird?
Six thousand, right?
On the nose.  I tell you what, because youre so cute, Ill take care of our incidentals.
How does it feel to get that much money just for being you?
 Great, with the occasional stabs of shame. Now, listen, this covers the weekend, but as we discussed, if you want to be intimate, we talk money before anything happens.
That wont be an issue, believe me. I find the idea of sex for money morally repugnant.  No offense.
Its okay. Hell, Ive never paid for it. But please dont feel like you have to explain yourself to me.
You quitting?
Im desperate to start but I dont have an addictive personality. Except for approval. That, I cant get enough of.
Who are they?
Graham Russell and Russell Hitchcock.
Air Supply?
My parents had a German exchange student a few years back.... He must have left it here.
 Everyone knows their greatest hits but some of their lesser-known ballads are surprisingly poignant.
What?
Its cute.
What is?
You stand on your tiptoes.
I do?
Is it an old habit from ballet class or a childhood spent walking on eggshells?
I never took ballet.
Have you ever done anything like this before?
A weekend?
A wedding.
No. Though strangely, Ive done quite a few funerals.
Not the way youre thinking. The women wanted me there for support. You can understand that.
I think thats disgusting.
Not you. Youre not disgusting. Youre lovely. Just the idea that theyd bring an escort. I mean, a stranger who, um, didnt...who never.... I mean, someones dead.
Thats right. Imagine facing it alone.
Sorry. Im a little nervous. I never thought something like this would happen to me.
This happened to you?
Well, happen, in the sense that I picked up the phone, tracked you down, flew you here and gave you six grand out of my 401K.
Can I ask you something?
How did you know that was me?
I have a friend at the magazine.
 Your friend guaranteed my anonymity.
If it makes you feel any better, to get your number, I had to cough up two round-trip tickets to Amsterdam and a case of mini-Baileys.
You can look. Its part of the package.
Would you grab my shampoo?
Shampoo, got it!
The part where you were a sexual surrogate and then started to, um, freelance. Is that really how it happened?
The real story is that my mother was a hippie. And a stripper. She was insanely inappropriate with me. She used to wash her lingerie in my bathwater. While I was still in the bath.
Oh, no.
Yeah. As an adult, I needed to find some way to experience intimacy and sex, but with rules that couldnt be violated.
Wow.
Yeah.
Im just screwing with you.
You shit!
I have a different story for every woman who asks. I look at her and figure out what she needs to hear to feel okay about being with me.
And you thought Id respond to the hippie stripper with no boundaries?
Admit it. You were disturbed, but ultimately moved.
This part here. You say, and I quote. Each woman has the exact love life she wants.  That seems like a pretty broad generalization.
So...what was I...oh, yeah. Do you honestly think that I want to be single and miserable? That I want to be obsessed with some asshole who led me on for years then -- out of the blue -- shattered my heart.
First of all, its never out of the blue. And second of all--
Yes.
What?!
When youre ready to let go, to be unsingle and unmiserable, you will. Until then....
 Is it always women?
Are you asking me if Im gay for pay?
I guess so.
What do you think?
Got it.
 Moms refining her strategy for DDay.
Im sure General Eisenhower never had to master the finer points of the seating chart and centerpieces.  Oh, and tomorrow afternoon you are carpooling to the country with the Fletcher-Wootens.
Sir, yes, sir!
Make sure you show Nick Regents Park.  Its romantic at night.
Better him on the wrong side of the road than you behind the wheel.
So, um. What about testing?
Theres a guy on 81st and Madison. You get your results in 24 hours.  Do you make your lovers get tested before you sleep with them?
My sixth-grade science project was entitled, Love Hurts: The Heartbreak of Human Papillomavirus. Trust me, Im careful.
I love that youre asking questions, but do you really want to get into all of this?
This is awkward for me.  Talking about it makes me feel better.
Hey.
Dont stop asking questions, okay?
Okay.
Do you pay taxes?
 I swear. I dont have a signature move.
Oh, come on. Youre like the Yoda of escorts.
Getting you on the phone was harder than getting into college.
I dont have gimmicks or play games. Its way more...
Subtle?
I disappear. Its not about me.
Its hard to explain.
Show me.
Come on.
Ive got this bad taste in my mouth. What is it? I think its the words: morally repugnant.
Show me.
Close your eyes.
Close your eyes.
Im not going to kiss you. You can relax. Youre safe.
Im not going to kiss you. Trust me. All you have to do is listen to my voice.
Hes going to be so sorry he let you go.
Hell look at you with your sexy dress and your perfect date but it wont matter because its not about him. Its about you.
I want you to let go of the hurt. ...the insecurity...the past. When you do, hell see you the way I see you, and, in that moment, hell finally understand what he lost.
But by then, the amazing thing is...you wont care.
Holy crap. Youre worth every penny.
You better get going.
Okay, Yoda.
Go.
Yo, ladies! Listen up! The bride has made the foolhardy and perhaps fatal request, that we play Pub Golf tonight.  Behold hole one. Theres a twostroke penalty for failure to finish a hole and a three-stroke penalty for barfing. Yell Fore! before you barf and its only two strokes.
Weve got eight more holes waiting at eight more bars, so in the name of all things sacred, pace yourselves!  To Amy!
To me!
I thought you might need this.
Silly me, where was my head?
Stay. Have a fiery drink with us.
I dont know....
Stay.
Its like the directors cut of 9 1/2 Weeks.
The thing about Nick is, youre either looking at him, or youre pretending not to.  Me? Im looking.  Can you believe Kat gets to sleep with this guy?
Honestly, you should send God a bottle of wine or a muffin basket.
Why is he still here?!
Oh, sorry. Youre right. Girls only.
Ladies, thank you for granting me this rare glimpse into a timeless female ritual.  To the husbands who won you, the losers who lost you, and to the lucky bastards who have yet to meet you.
 And to the cock in the hen house.
I cant believe you met him first. Its so depressing. Somebody buy my wooha a drink.
To TJs lady business. And to Amy!
To Ed!
Whats his problem?
What?
Theres something about him thats just a bit odd.
Other than, hes shagging your exgirlfriend?
No, thats not it.
You are a tosser.
Remember when we went hiking in the lake district and Amy was wearing that little bikini thing.
No.
It was before you started going out. We had lunch at that inn on the lake.
Oh, yes. Right. The Rat and Parrot.
And Kat was fully clothed.
But, somehow, it was Kats arse that was stung by nettles. And you rubbed it with a dandelion leaf.
Thats when I realized I wanted to be a doctor.
Oh, shut up. Youre an optician.
Lasik surgeon, actually.
I didnt deserve her back then.
And you do now?
Maybe I hate women.
All women or just the two-legged ones who steal your money, screw your friends, and vacuum during the World Cup?
Jeff was just reminiscing about your girlfriends backside.
Look, the thing is. About that love-of-my-life nonsense. I would appreciate it if you didnt say anything to Kat. It was silly. Its all rather complicated.
This ones on the house.
Im worried. Amys not good at drinking. She gets sooo drunk sooo fast. Does free alcohol get you less drunk or more drunker?  Is it drunker or drunker-er?
Just drunk enough.
If you switch now, you might be able to stand up for the ceremony.
Woody?
Not yet...
...but its getting there.
I thought you were living in San Francisco. Or was it Nepal?
Close. Sydney. Turns out, I missed the rain.
You look so much better.
Is this what youre doing? Bartending?  Not that its not great. Its just, you used to have dreams and plans.
Whoa! Good for you!
I always wondered what happened with us.
 I havent thought about that in years.
Did Kat tell you she dumped you because of your funky breath?
Did Amy tell you she keeps her Homecoming tiara by the bed?
Shes drunk. -er than me. But I didnt really dump you, did I?
Hard.
Which was understandable -- you were one of the hottest girls at the American School, but I sort of thought youd be nicer...at least tell me why...cause we were friends first.
And we know Kat was the hottest expat in school because she was voted Best Eyes, Brightest Smile, and Most Likely to Age Well. No, wait. That was me. Never mind.
Christ, Amy.
Oh, shut up and be happy. Its always this or that. Youre never happy, you frowny-faced Grumplestilskin.
Drunk isnt the same thing as happy, Amy.
Youre my half sister, but I whole love you.
Why dont you get my half sister her seventh hole?
Bacardi 151.
Are you okay?
I dont think I can go through with this.
Pub Golf?
The wedding.  I am so, so bad! I dont think I should be allowed to get married.
What are you talking about?
TJ! Virginia Slim!
 Youre okay. You got it.
Just because some slags been paid for, doesnt mean youve got to...you know.
Its been my experience that the people who hire a prostitute, need a prostitute.  You did the right thing.
I think I love you, mate.  How do you know so much about so much?
Im a hooker.
Can you pull over at the next seven ATMs?
That was awesome! How much do we rock?  Fore!
I WIN!
It was a great party. Thank you.
Do you want to come in for a minute? We could talk about--
When I freaked out at the pub?  That was nothing, just nerves. Dont worry about it.
But I do. I will. Youre my sister.
God, Kat! Please. Dont be nice to me. I can take anything right now but you being nice to me.
 What? Why? What do you mean?
I should get going.
Are you sure youre okay?
Im fine. I promise.
You okay?
 Shhhh.
Morning.
She still thinks we dont know about the boat thing.
I wasnt sure what works for you, so Ive got a pack of Saltines, a bottle of Pedialyte -- preferred by infants and rock stars -- an eggand- cheese sandwich, a black coffee, and a Bloody Mary.
This is really sweet of you, but I need to ask you something.  What happened last night?
Nothing.
Are you sure?
We kissed. Made out a little. Then you passed out.
Whether its true or not, thank you.
Whats this?
Oh. Shoot. I--
 Shit! Shit! Shit!
Is this for last night?
Of course not. How...how could it be? Nothing happened.
If I was going to charge you, I would have told you beforehand. I thought I explained that.
I didnt want you to think I was expecting anything to be free or that I was expecting something at all. Well, clearly I was expecting something or I wouldnt have stopped at all those ATMs on the way home.  By the way, would it have been enough? I mean, if something had happened. Which it didnt?
Dont they have a limit at those machines?
 Not if you take an advance on your credit card.
Youre three hundred short.
And my Brazilian wax looks like... Brazil.  Awesome.
Whats a four letter word for daughter defiler?  Oh. N-I-C-K.
You a boating man, son?
I am now, sir.
 At least somebodys using the damn thing.  I was gonna fix her up but we took one trip and the kids fought so much, we never launched her again.
Thats not true. We checked for leaks a few years back.  Good morning.
Ahoy!
 So youre telling me. If something had happened last night...it would have cost me fourteen hundred dollars? Thats a down payment on a Ford Focus!
Not dollars. Pounds.
My rate isnt arbitrary. It was determined by prevailing market conditions. By the way, it includes oral. Thats the extra three hundred.... Pounds.
And what if I didnt want you to...to do that to me?
No, no. The three hundred is for you doing it to me.
What?
Believe me, if anything had happened, that would have been one of the highlights. For you.
But nothing did.
Yup. Thats why you get to keep your money.
Hey, Ginger! Hey, Gilligan! How much do I love all this? Im going to get divorced and remarried over and over again so itll last forever. Kat, be a sweetie, and go help with the rings. No way Jeffreys going to get it right.
 Id be happy to. Youre welcome.
Oh, dont be that way.
 Come on, Bun. Leave her alone.
 Its not always about you, sweetie.
How could you say that? Of course its not about me. Its never about me when shes in the room because you two are on a special team. You might as well have Tshirts made up.
Im sorry. I dont know why Im being so sensitive. I just get tired of being odd man out.
Tell me about it.
Oh honey, its not that I love Amy more. Its that she lets me love her.
 Im off. Ta-ta!
 Okay, then. Ill catch up with you at the dance thing.... Sweetie.
Hey, Sal.
I heard you were back in town, kitty cat. Youre here for the highland flings, I bet.
I get all the glamour jobs.
Thanks, Sally.
The one I made for you is the cherries. You hang onto it or give it back?
Give it back? Are you nuts?
You pawned it.
Not exactly. I wear it.  On my right hand. And only rarely.
You want I nut him in the boat?
Yes? No. What?  Save the patter for the tourists.
You want me to let him in?
Of course, dont be silly.
Hey, you!
Let me guess. Amy presumed Id forget the rings.  I think Im her least favorite person.  You know, I am sorry.
 Maybe not her least... Theres always--
Eds mother.
So, tell me, hows unmarried life?
I have regrets.
Whoa, Jeffrey. Slow down. You and me, were the past. Im not sure if you noticed, but Im here with someone else.
Kat, we must talk. This guy, theres something not quite right.
Its called character. God, youre predictable.
Is that why you brought him? Because of me.
Dont be absurd.
I brought him here because hes my boyfriend. Because I adore him. Because late at night he takes me in his arms and....
Id stick around and explain what that means, but even if I give you the instruction manual, it doesnt mean youve got the tools to get the job done.
Kat, wait. I dont want you hating me. Weve never had this talk. You know how crap I am at this.
Um, news flash: I dont give a shit.
Kat, stop it. You do. You cant even look me in the eye. You went back to the States when we split up.
That was a long time ago.
It was. And it took your sister getting married to get you back here.
 So, whats your point?
I should have told you why I broke up with you. I was a coward. You deserve to know.
Hey, man.
Sorry, can you give us a moment?
No, I cant. Were late for a dance lesson. I guess youll have to finish up later.
Hello, goodbye, I want you, I hate you. Its all just words. None of it means anything. What matters is what you do. You either stay put or you walk away. If you look back, youre not walking away!
Oh, cut the crap!
I just hate seeing you so stuck.
He was about to un-stick me!  I paid you to help me get closure.
You paid me for a lot of reasons. Closure wasnt one of them.
 Sorry.
The wedding dance is, sans doubte, the most important dance-moment in a persons life.
A room full of friends, family, enemies...watching, smiling, betting on how long the marriage will last. All youll have is each other and whatever skills you acquire today.
There are people who will tell you that the wedding dance is symbolic of a couples compatibility. Of a rapport that cannot be faked. That an unskilled man on the dance floor is a man who lacks grace in bed.  These people are right.
Eyes open and pair off!
Im sorry I was such a bitch. I really appreciate your doing this.
 Its my job.
 She knows you better than anyone. You know her better than she knows herself. Where does that feeling live? I don't care if it's your heart, your head, or your crotch. Find that place and dance from it.
You know what pisses me off? Ive been spilling my guts all weekend but I dont know anything about you. Not one thing.
Im allergic to fabric softener, I majored in Comparative Literature at Brown, and I think Id miss you even if we had never met.
Now will you tell me how you became an escort?
So you cant dance, eh? Bloody liar.
I thought you said you were crap.
I had to say something to get you here.
Fair enough, but Im stepping on toes here and youre waltzing around like...
Fred Astaire and whats her face!
Its not me. I swear. Its her. Shes magic.
And, switch partners!
Youd better get going. My parents will be round to cart you off to the country.
Whatever you do, dont mention Italy. Or politics. Or baby buggies.  Or Edith Piaf.
Your probably best off pretending youre asleep.
Pigeons creep me out. Theyre like dirty doves...plotting something.
How do you have real relationships? You know, ones you dont get paid for?
You have had girlfriends?
Sure, but its never easy. They say theyre okay with it, and they are...for a while. Then one day, theyre not.
When I said Id never done a wedding before, I didnt say that no one ever asked. I just never said yes.
So, whyd you say yes to me?
There was something in your voice on the phone that day.
Desperation?
I think it was hope.
What would you do if you weren't an escort?
Make out with you for free.
What would you do if you stopped worrying about what other people think?
Spontaneously combust?
 You know, I might just call you... but if I did...I would lose... because my hand blows.
Call.
Lets see what kind of a man my daughters found for herself.
Raise you thirty.
 Can I see it? Just for a sec?
Come on, its so not fair. At least describe it to me.
Daddy!
 Im sorry, Nick's about to win a pile of my money. He's gonna have to call you back.
Thank you for your understanding, maam. And good luck putting out that fire.
What is it you do again?
What would you say if I told you I was a member of an elite task force employed to safeguard our nations most precious resource: your daughter.
Oh, yeah, shrink. Call.
Let me save you some trouble. My old man hit the bottle like it was his job and he had a mean streak as wide as the English Channel. So, me? I drink in moderation and have never raised my voice around a kid.
What do you say to that?
I say that feeling compelled to do the opposite of your parents is as enslaving as emulating them.
Thats my girl!
Best thing about being a dad is when your kid starts kicking your ass--
--and The ass of The man who adores her.
Anybody seen my future-wife?  Shell kill me if I dont serve her first.
Have you guys ever had a real, honest-to-God fight?
 Of course.
Yeah, right.
I hear that make-up sex is the best kind. Unfortunately, Ill never know.
Hey, Sigmund, you think you could rustle up the bride and tell her to join the party?
Will do.
 I said no! Im getting married tomorrow! What do you want from me?
Right, then. Ill get you a Tofurky Burger instead.
Sorry to interrupt. Your dad sent me.
What for?
To make sure youre okay.
You know all that if these walls could talk stuff? Do you believe it? That a place has a memory?
Actually, I do.
This place has been in Eds family forever. We used to spend weekends out here every summer.  God, I hope it doesnt remember everything.
May I have a word? Itll be just a minute.
Let me think. You stole seven years of her life with your charm and your bullshit and now you want a couple more minutes? Sure. Go right ahead.
Thanks for the solidarity, but next time? A little less information.
Does Kat know?
It was such a long time ago.
Still--
If Ed ever found out....
Or Kat....
And she wonders why I swim to the bottom of a Lemondrop every time I see her.
You were so good to me. I swear I never meant to hurt you. We were together what, five years?
Seven if you count the on-and-off years. Which I do.
Right. Seven.  Christ, thats a long time, isnt it?
Not for a dog.
Well, we had a lot of good years, but then...
Is this supposed to be an apology?
Its not supposed to be anything, Kat. Its just my rather feeble attempt to.... Oh, I dont know.  You see, I thought I could deny my feelings--
Youre not even listening.
When we were together I was too here, now Im not here enough.
Are you okay?
Yeah. You?
Yeah.
Lets go.
You, with the hair and all the bright ideas. Paper lantern plus open flame equals no-no.
That woman is insane. God damn if I dont love her.
Kat does this thing. She stands on her tiptoes when shes looking in the mirror. You ever notice that?
I remember the day I met Kat. It was in New York. Id been dating Bunny for a few months, and she finally trusted me enough to introduce me to her kid. So Im over at her place and in walks this little monster that wont stop talking.  She hands me a walkie-talkie made out of an orange juice can and drags me over to her fort. The fort was this lop-sided mess of blankets and the walkie-talkie almost took my ear off, but she was having the time of her life.  That was it. I was a goner.
That was the day I became a dad. And from that moment on, I just knew. Id give that little girl everything she ever needed, Id love her unconditionally, and I wouldnt let her out of the house until she was thirty.
You think its going to get easier when they get older. That youre going to worry about them less. Or trust the world more. But thats just not how it goes.
Im not sure if this is going to make sense to you, Sir, but Id like to ask permission to date your daughter.
The ladies are fond of you, Nick. I can see that. I also see that whatever else you are, youre a helluva good guy.  She paid a real price dating Jeffrey. This will be different, wont it?
I blame Tony Pee-Pants!
Oh, no.  She tells this story at every major holiday.
Why should this be any different?  Besides, I have to initiate Nick into the family.
Oh, dont deny it. You barely tolerate each other.
Its true. All you have in common is that you both secretly want to be me.  Cheers.
 She blames Tony Pee-Pants Pinterello for everything. The fall of the British Empire, the Cold War, the internet.
It was just after we moved here. My little girls got in a fight over Tony Pee-Pants and they havent made up since.
Apparently, Kat and I were inseparable.
If Kat ate a banana, Amy threw it up.
If Amy threw it up, Kat ate it.
We were eating and puking together in harmony until one day, Tony walked me home from school. He was my first boyfriend.  I was fourteen.
So Tony Pee-Pants starts ignoring Kat. He wanted to play with me.
You practically bribed him with your erector set.
 Fourteen and hes hoodwinked by a an erector set?
I didnt say he was worth it.
Whatever. The point is, Tony ended up with a chair in his face.
 It was plastic. And child-sized. But there were some stitches involved.
Like fifteen.
Dad made me go over and apologize the next day.
Im an American and in America, people sue. So to prevent a lawsuit, I baked a tart. And I dont bake.
So Dad rang the bell and when Tony Pee-Pants opened the door, I threw the tart at him and popped his stitches.
Sorry.
You should have seen his face-- (he makes a surprised face) Then, boom. Right in the kisser.
 What happened to my little angels?
And thats when he peed in his pants? After the tart?
He bled a bunch, but no, there was no peeing.
So whats with the nickname?
I have absolutely no idea.
Okay, lets do this. Whats the big confession?
Well, in a way, you were right. The prob was, you were in love. I wanted to be. But I wasnt.
If Id have confessed, you would have forgiven me. But the truth is, I didnt want to be forgiven. I sort of just needed it to end.
Bollocks, Im sorry. I had no idea this would be so difficult.
Relax. Take a breath and just say it. Its no big deal. I promise.
Brilliant.
Well, it was a big deal. As late as...yesterday. Or this morning.  But not anymore.
And you were right -- it is why I brought Nick with me...because I wanted to drive you insane. To torture you slowly, for the entire weekend. But then something happened. I started to fall for him. And now, and I hope this doesnt hurt your feelings, now Im sick of you and me, of our story.
Its the past. Its nothing but ghosts. So just get it off your chest, then lets go back upstairs and eat some tiramisu.
I slept with your sister.
Im sorry?
I shagged Amy. Two years ago. Thats why I ended it. And then, after you left, sod it, we kept at it like rabbits until we both realized it was absolutely mad. And, you know, morally wrong. Then there was that one other time. And that was it.
Last Christmas when Ed proposed, I realized...Im in love with her. I cant lose her.
What? Good lord, say something.
I wasted two years grieving this?
Oh, no. He told you.
You knew?
Im so sorry.
Please dont say anything.
Please.
 I cant believe you told her!
You said your job was discretion. You couldnt wait until you got back to New York?
Whats going on?
Nothing.
 Doesnt look like nothing.
Now is not the time to catch on.  It is, however, time for another round.
Kat!
Come on! Dont be--
What?! I cant believe I trusted you! How could you not tell me!?
 Jesus, Kat. What did you want me to say? That your sister slept with your fianc? That everybody knew and no one respected you enough to tell you?
Besides, you hired me for my discretion.
Youve always got that to hide behind, dont you? Its just business!
Yeah! For all I know, come Monday morning, well go back to the real world and...and youll be hiring me for your best friend!
I mean, come on. Did you actually think wed be boyfriend and girlfriend?
You let me make a fool of myself! You lied to me! I dont know why that surprises me because lying is what you do. Its your job. Its who you are. How would you even know if something were real?
Youre judging me?! Oh, thats a good one. Youre lying to me, youre lying to your family, and youre lying to yourself. But youre going to stand there and point a finger at me? The man you hired to pretend to be your boyfriend?
Youre right. I was so desperate to make everyone believe I was happy that I spent six grand on a lie. And after all that? The only one who ended up falling for it was me.
Go ahead, Kat. Hate me. You were running out of steam on the whole Jeffrey thing. Maybe now youll be able to hold onto this just long enough to ruin your next relationship.
Ill just check into a hotel.
Dont be ridiculous. Its late and the place is empty. Just take my car.
I dont know whats going on with you two, but Im sure itll work out. You couldnt be more perfect for her if she picked you out of a catalogue.
Thanks, man.
Hey.
Hey.
I just wanted to say thank you. For not outing me in front of Ed. I want to tell him. Just not on the night before our wedding. With these kind of things, timing is everything.
Youre right. You should really time it right so when he hears that you repeatedly screwed his best friend, he doesnt feel like the world is collapsing around him and theres no escape because you tricked him into marrying you.
You know what? Im not having this conversation right now.
Sure, disappear. Weve been walking away our whole lives.
Im not even going to discuss the fact that you screwed my fianc because youve always been a spoiled, amoral, little princess.
But I put up with all of it because I really believed that deep down, you loved me and you were a good person. I really thought you deserved someone like Ed. God I envied you guys. Somehow, he made your selfish bullshit seem okay. Almost endearing.
And now I know. You didnt deserve any of it. You were just lucky.
Dont worry, Amy. Your wedding will be perfect. Tomorrow, Ill smile and say all the right things and youll deal with Ed when youre ready. But right now, tonight, I cant pretend its okay.
And thats the first flight out?
All right, thank you.
Im okay.
I dont believe you.
No, Im fine, really. Nothing a bottle of Jack and a straight razor cant fix.
Anyway, it doesnt matter. Todays Amys day.
Whats going on with you two?
I was pretty hard on her last night.  And now shes getting married.
Theres a reason I always tell that Tony Pee-Pants story, you know.
Trust me. This is bigger than Tony Pee-Pants.
 Before Tony, you and your sister were best friends. I couldnt split you up. If your sister ate the spinach, you ate the spinach. If you threw up--.
Mom, please.
Anyway, when that boy came over, it was the first time you ever did anything without her.  And Amy wasnt just jealous...she was sad and lonely. She missed you.
She did?
So she flirted with Tony, and you got mad and sent him away. Who did that leave?  You and Amy. Reunited.
I wish I had known it would go by so fast.
Wow. You look beautiful.
Yeah. Most important day of my life. Whatever. Listen, I chose you to be my Maid of Honor for a lot of reasons: I love you, youre my favorite, and only, half-sister, blah blah blah. But the main reason I picked you is because youve been so miserable for the past few years, I knew you wouldnt outshine me.  But here it is, my big day. My big day. And something doesnt feel right. Maybe it was that pep talk you gave me last night, I dont know, but your misery just isnt working for me anymore.
It was a horrible thing I did to you. Im really sorry.
I know you hate when I get what I want. But right now, all I want is for you to be happy.
So whyd you let him go?
Its complicated, Dad.
 Oh, well, then. It probably wont work out.
I read a fascinating article in the New Yorker once and this guy said: Every woman has the exact love life she wants. You know what? I agree. And I refuse to believe that this is what you want.
Ever since you were a little kid, youve been trying to please other people. And in return for your services, all theyve done is disappoint you.  So tell me, is this the guy for you?
Yeah.
Then for once in your life, do something for yourself.
Your mother said youd like a quick word.
I was too scared to tell you. I thought youd never speak to me again. Im so sorry.
Say something. Please.
I knew you were still seeing someone else when we finally got together. I never in a million years would have dreamt it was Jeffrey.
Does Kat know?
Jeffrey told her last night.
Last night?
That worthless bastard!
Hey.
 I look like a total wanker, dont I?
Yeah, kind of.
Only way to beat that guy is to take yourself out of the game.
You heading to the train station?
I figured you could pick up your car tomorrow.
Yeah.
I felt sorry for you last night. I was sitting there like some smug arse thinking how lucky I am.
I forgave her when I thought it was just some bloke. Bugger it. Why Jeffrey?  Ive had her up on a pedestal ever since...since the day I put her up there. Its going to take a long time for me to get over this.
Think about it this way: you get to spend the rest of your life having make-up sex.
Listen, mate, are you coming to this wedding or not?
Hi.
Hi.
When we were fighting last night, it hit me. No one had ever cared about me as much as you cared about Jeffrey. Thats why I was so angry. Im sorry I took it out on you -- I didnt mean to hurt you.  And then, I was going to get out of here and leave you alone, but halfway to the station, I realized--
Id rather fight with you than make love to anyone else.
I should go.
What?! No, no. You cant--
I have to.  Im the best man.
Today is a day for love and for beauty. But most of all, it's a day for truth.
Ive been working on this speech since these two got engaged. It was supposed to be touching and funny.
I thought Id come back to England and have an epiphany. Id see Amy and the perfect thing would pop into my head and it would encapsulate how and why I love my sister. But I came home and everything was a mess and the truth and beauty line was all I could come up with.  And I think I stole that from the back of an in-flight magazine.
A wonderful woman once said about Amy: Its not that I love her more, its that she lets me love her.
 It can be the scariest thing in the world to let someone love you and to know how to love them back. Take good care of each other. I love you both.
Nice speech. I thought it was touching... and funny.
Thank you.
Since Ive generously agreed to go out with you, I think its only fair that you tell me how you got into the business?
You know why I never tell the real story of how I got into this?
Because its boring.  Now if you want to hear a good story, let me tell you the one about how I got out of it.
