It's six AM...Ooooooo and that bed never felt sooooo gooood...Mmmm, you linger in a gentle dream state...ever so comfortable... ever so safe...
 ...I don't have to talk to you.
Yes...Yes, you do because you see, today, you're our -
SPOTLIGHT CELEBRITY.
No, it's none of your business - it's MY business - and I'm very private about what is my business.
OH, PLEASE!  You had sex with the Prime Minister of Belize in the parking lot of Sea World... You're telling me you're a private kind of person.  No...You're our...
SPOTLIGHT CELEBRITY....
Listen, I have been humiliated enough already!
Perhaps not - We need those details....
Oooooooo....
I'm peeved!  I'm calling Belize!  ...I WANT TO SPEAK TO THE PRIME MINISTER, PRONTO!
Yes...Belize Central Office.
Yes...yes, hello...Hello, this is Jack Lucas of the United States and I want to speak to the Prime Minister of Belize, PRONTO!...
What you mean he's not in - you mean nobody's running the country! You mean I could just walk in there right now and take you up for a COUP before lunch.
Hi, this is Jack Lucas and we're discussing PERSONAL PET PEEVES... Go ahead, caller...
O.K.  Well, It's my husband.  He drives me crazy.  I'll be talking and he'll never let me finish a sentence...He's always finishing my...
 Finishing your thoughts...that's awful.
Oh, that "drives me...."
Drives you crazy, huh?  The scoundrel!
Hello Jack.  It's Edwin.
Edwin.  We haven't heard from you in a while.  I've missed you.
 O.K....O.K...
So, Edwin, baby, this is Sunrise Confession time...what have you got for us?
I...I...went to this bar..this very, ya know, IN place...called The Side Bar.
I know the place.  It's one of those YUPPIE gathering holes. I told you to stay away from them, Edwin.  Yuppies are diseased individuals who went to private schools and took scouting serious.
 Okay...I know but...I met this beautiful girl...
Now, Edwin, I'm going to have to remind you of the time we made you propose to that check-out girl at Thrifty's that you liked so much.  Remember her reaction?
 I wasn't really serious about her, Jack.  That was just a joke for you guys...She was just a girl. This is a woman.  She wears pearls.
I think she likes me...she gave me her number, but she must work a lot 'cause when I call she's never home...But I think we'll go out this weekend...I've -
Yeah, Edwin, SURE...and PINNOCHIO is a true story...EDWIN!  WAKE UP!  This is ANOTHER fairy tale.
No, Jack, no, it's not.
She gave you the brush off, kiddo. How long ago did you meet?
Um...I think it's like two weeks almost.
TWO WEEKS?  And she's never home? What, does she commute to Siagon every day?  Edwin, please...
 JACK!  She LIKES me.  She said for me to call.
 "WHAT A FOOL BELIEVES...HE SEES.."
 JACK!
I told you about those kind of people, Edwin.  They only mate with their own kind.  It's called YUPPIE IN-BREEDING - that's why so many of them are retarded and wear the same clothes.  You are not their kind Edwin...They're not human.  They're evil, Edwin.
 O.K., Jack.
Well, I'm gone.  I'm outta here. It's been a thrill, as always.  "Have a perfect day"...and remember, bosses are just cruel third graders who have grown up and only pretended to be mature so they could get jobs and be cruel for money.
Everyone here on the Jack Lucas Morning Show says bye.
BYE!
This is Jack Lucas...So long... arriverderch...I'll be sure to send you a thought as you struggle through yet another eternal nine-to-fiver...Yes, I will - as I drive home in my limo...lay out on my sun deck...have sex with the teenager of my choice...And that thought will be: Thank God I'm me!
 I want you all to know I'm getting sick again and it's because someone keeps forgetting to raise the thermostat before I come in here...My ass is freezing for the first hour.
I know it's predictable but I've decided to just go with it and make his penis Florida.
Can I ask that when you clean your hands you wipe the ink off the inside of the sink before it stains the porcelain.
You can ask.
Raoul called before.  About dinner.
About dinner as a concept or about dinner with...  R A O U L?
 You're so witty.  I'm so jealous.  I NEED to get out of here, Jack, and do something other than sit in this apartment and count how many funny lines you have per page.
You know, tomorrow's a very big day for me...And it would be nice if you acted like you understood.
Fine.  I'll say no.
It IS my first day of taping, Sondra.
Fine.
 First time in my life I'll be a voice with a body.  Do you know what that means?  What this could lead to?
 Jack, it's a sitcom - you're not splitting the atom.
I'll remember that the next time you get excited over drawing pubic hairs on raisin bran. (lighting joint and inhaling) Want some?
No, I have to work.
How un-sixties of you.
I was nine in the sixties.
I used to think my biography would be JACK LUCAS - THE FACE BEHIND THE VOICE, but now it can be JACK LUCAS, THE FACE AND THE VOICE...or maybe just JACK - EXCLAMATION POINT...
 Jack, I have work to do, too. I just want to take a shower...
 I can't open the door, my darling.
Well, you better open the door - 'cause I'm not getting it in a bathroom.
Yes, my darling.
You're a maniac.
 You make me wet.
If we do this now, can I have dinner with Raoul?
No...I want one order beef with baby peas...and two egg roll..ONE ORDER BEEF.  Is there anyone who speaks English there...I'm sorry but you're bumming me out - I want one order BEEF WITH BABY PEAS... and TWO egg roll...O.K...You understand now?  Jack Lucas... Lucas...L - U -...L! L! L!...Like in...Lichee nut! Lichee! Leper!
"...I want my...
"IwantMYorangecupWITHtheteddybear. IwantmyORANGEcupwiththeteddybear. IwantmyorangecupwiththeTEDDYbear."  You could burp these lines and you'd be funny. (sincere amazed realization) I have this.  I have this. (sinks into tub and Whispers) I really have this.
...suggested that Mr. Malnick return to the scene of his initial meeting...
An after work hot spot, the Side Bar...is popular with single young professionals.  Edwin Malnick arrived at the peak hour of 7:15, took a long look at the handsome collection of the city's best and brightest - then removed a shotgun from his overcoat and opened fire.
Seven people were killed before Mr. Malnick...
The last person Mr. Malnick spoke to was Jack Lucas.  Representatives of Mr. Lucas expressed regret, however, no formal comment has been made.  But a lonely man reached out to a world he knows only through his radio - looking for friendship...finding only pain ...and tragedy.  This is Mark Shaffer...Channel Ten news.
 I can't watch foreign movies when I eat - they make me nauseous.
These people are insane today. They took insane pills...
Hey!  Mr. Happiness!
Are we going to work a little today or are ya gonna act like your puppy's been run over by a truck?  Hmm?
Are you going for a specific look with this?
 Can you help me?  I don't know what I'm in the mood for.  Uh...I sort of want a Katherine Hepburny kinda Cary Granty kinda thing - something sorta nutty and screwbally, ya know?  Nothing heavy...I couldn't take heavy. Ya have something like that?
 Uhh....
 I don't know...Uh...
Maybe something more modern.  Like a Goldie Hawny - Chevy Chasey kinda thing, huh?
Or maybe a musical -  Ya got SATURDAY NIGHT FEVER?
Well...what will it be?
Well, like I said - maybe a musical.  I'm not sure.  What are you in the mood for?
Great...  "ORDINARY PEEPHOLES"
It's kind of a - Big Titty - Spread Cheeky kinda thing...I cried all the way through it...
 ...I'm sorry.  I need to borrow him for a moment.
Not for nuthin - but there's this thing we have in business...it might help you a little.  It's called "customa relations."
 I'm sorry.  You know I hate people who ask for screwball comedies.
Sweetie, honey...You hate people.  What is it?  Is this one of those days when you tell me you're in... whadda call it...an emotional abyss?  Why don't you take the day off. I'll cook tonight.  O.K?
Mr. Bum.
WIDE ANGLE
Anybody here named Jimminey?
Mr. Lucas, why don't you make this the last one, then go home. Huh?
I don't have a home Joe.  I'm all alone ...  Except for my little Italian friend here. 
 I never seen you like this. Did somebody not know who you were again?
I never was, Joe... You ever read any Nietzsche?...
My name is Phil.
Phil.
No, I don't.
Do you ever get the feeling you're being punished for your sins Joe?
Phil...  No.
You wanna hear my new title for my biography. "IT WAS NO PICNIC" - THE JACK LUCAS STORY"  Just nod yes or no...  "IL NOUVA ESTA PINICKO" -
...Another homeless man was found burned to death in the Lower East Side. It is the second such incident in two weeks... That story when we return-
... New this fall...
Honey. Have some breakfast then go down to the station and demand your job back.
I can't...
Yes you can. Just go straight to Bill's office and-
No, I mean I can't eat breakfast.  I WANT MY ORANGE CUP WITH THE TEDDY BEAR.
For the funniest D.J. on T.V. - ON THE RADIO - this fall on channel ten ...
What's going on?
I said what's going on?  What are you doing here?
You shouldn't hang around this neighborhood.
O.K...
People like my Dad pay alot of money for this neighborhood. They don't like looking out their window for 2500 a month and seein your ass asleep on the benches - you understand?
Yes..Yes..I do...I won't come back.
Good.  You believe this drunk?
 NO...NO PLEASE..
LEAVE HIM ALONE!
Shit. Let's go. We blew it.
No.
 Jesus...They're all over the place.
You know, there's enough in here for the two of you.
I advise you to let us go.
You advise us!
You're out numbered.
 Shit. It's like fucking Night of the Living Dead.
Am I supposed to be scared? Come on! They're nuts. They can't do anything.  GET OUTTA HERE!
They only listen to me.
Yeah right...They don't even understand what the fuck THEY'RE saying - they're going to understand you?
 Shit.
You're gonna need more than your zombie pals when I get through with you.
Son...There comes a time in every man's life...and you will learn this, if and when you become men...
 Ow...Ow....OW!
However, the ability to bean a shithead can be a fabulous advantage.
 Are you all right?
 OWW...MAN...
 Uh...should we call the police?
Nah. This is our fight. I think it would be nice if we tied him up though...If I had time I'd give him a bad haircut..
 Here, would you take care of this.
I need a drink.
I know a great place.  Drinks are on me!
Yeah darling.
 I'm sorry to bother you but... uh...  I heard from somewhere your husband drank?
 Oh, yeah.  He was a big drunk.
Well...the thing is, see -  My fella's not home...things haven't been going his way lately ...Ya know how it is...and I was wondering -when he drank, your husband, was there anyplace in particular he went...a cheap bar in the neighborhood...
Who knew.  When he left this apartment it was no longer my problem.  When he came back, it was my problem.
...Let me tell you something, my darling.  And I'm telling you cause when you started talking, I got a feeling right here...  ...before your heart breaks like mine...get rid of this man.
Thank you.
Death penalty's just another violation of my constitutional right to satisfaction.
I hate that.
So, you mean if somebody like, killed your mother, you wouldn't want him dead?
Sure I would.  But I should get to kill him.
 He gets to kill him.  That's democracy, see.
This is it.  I'm in hell.  I've been damned to an eternity of idiotic conversation.
You were great tonight, Parry. (affirmations from the other two) Superbum, man!  Fucking Marvel Comics...
How are you feeling?
Have I died?
 Hahahahaaa..Nononono...
 If you're going to murder me, that's fine...just don't laugh.
It's all right. Don't be embarassed. Yes, I live in a boiler room. My name's Parry. We met last night.
Jack Lucas...
 "Jack Lucas".
 WHAT!
HUH?
WHAT?
WHAT?
 Ssshhhhh.
 Oohhhhh.  HEY JACK LUCAS!
No...
Do you know what THE LITTLE PEOPLE just told me?
 The Little People?
THEY said you're the one.
They're mistaken. I am definitely not anyone...
 Well, I've gotta say something! I mean you're tying my hands here!!
They say you're not ready to know.
I'm not.
I know all this sounds strange but...  I really do hear them.
Uh...well...some kind of...vigilante.
 Noooo...I mean that sort of happens along the way but noooo I'm on a what you call a "quest" See...  I'm the janitor of God.
I was standing in here one evening...
 Why?
I don't remember. Listen, you do strange things when you live alone. Are you married?  Funny, you look married.
Anyway, I was standing here and all of a sudden - I hear these voices - And the more I listen, the louder they get.
RIGHT out of here and into my hands...
Right there.
 Yeah?
He's got it...He's got the Grail.
Langston Carmichael? Really?
 I know! You can't imagine how surprised I was. I mean who would think you could find anything divine on the Upper East Side.
 Wait a minute! You're telling me the psychic dumpster told you Langston Carmichael has The Holy Grail sitting in a comode next to his humidore?
Yeah.  It's in his library on the-
Listen, and I really don't mean to be flippant or to enrage you or anything, but I think you'd be spending you time a lot more wisely looking for your brain.  I have to go now.
Jack, please...I need your help.
See...there's this one other thing.  The Red Knight...
Well, I just drew that from my imagination.  I haven't actually met the guy...yet...  THEY tell me he's out there waiting for me, waiting till I get close and then he'll show himself.  See, it's either him or me.  He's been playing with me lately.  Those kids last night - they work for him.  He's got people like that all over the city.  Haven't you noticed all the crime lately.
Crime?  In New York?  Really?
It's because I'm getting close, Jack.  That's why I need help. Somebody like you, somebody true. I'm getting close but...  ...I don't think I could face him alone.  So what do you say?
 Listen.  You're a very nice...very nice psychotic man.  I really appreciate what you did for me - you're a...it was a very brave and noble thing...
Oh, please...You're embarrassing me.
But I can't help you...
....so, once again....Thank you...  Uh....?
Parry.
Parry...I'm Jack.
 I know.
You're a good person. Really. Thanks again.
Anytime.
Where you coming from!?
Uh...basement I think...
 I TELL HIM NO VISITORS!
Sorry..I..he brought me here last night. I had no idea...
FFFFFRRRRAAANNNNNKKK! WHO IS AT THE DOOR?!
I'M TALKIN TO SOMEBODY! YA GOTTA YELL LIKE A BANSHEE!
It's just my manner!
 WHAT!?
I SAID IT'S JUST MY MANNER!
You a friend of Parry's?
No...Is he supposed to live there?
Yeah well...I let him stay. I didn't know what else to do - ya know, after what happened?
What happened?
 Oh, such a tragedy. His wife was at some bar with some friends, ya know, after work - and some nut came in with a shot-gun and blew the place apart. You must have heard about...the guy who listened to the radio.
 ...He went nuts. I mean, who wouldn't. She was a beautiful girl. They kept him at this place for the mentally upset in Staten Island. He didn't speak-not a word. Then, all of a sudden, he starts talkin - only now, he's this Parry guy. He used to live here with his wife, so when he got released they sent him here. I felt bad. He couldn't work. So I let him stay downstairs. He helps out, I give him a couple of dollars. People throw things away, he keeps them.  BUT HE'S NOT SUPPOSED TO HAVE VISITORS!
 My God.
You all right?..  Listen, don't mention any of this to him though. He doesn't remember about being married and all, and if you talk about it, he gets kinda confused.
Sure...  Can I just sit here a minute?
Sure. You look kinda lime colored.
FRRRAAANNK!
YOU'RE GONNA MAKE ME COMMIT MURDER, I SWEAR TO CHRIST!
Listen. I understand open relationships. Please. I was a teenager in the sixties, after all. But when you care about somebody, you need more than an open relationship. Ya need a phone call...Ya need to pick up the phone and tell me you're not dead...that you haven't been attacked or raped or who knows...I sat upstairs all night worried sick. Look at you!
I'm sorry.
I can't tell you how distraught I was. What happened? Where were you?
I was attacked.
WHAT?
Guy here wants to check out the pornos.
SO, send him back!
I smell gas! What do you mean you were attacked last night?
These..kids tried to...set me on fire.
OH MY GOD!...What did they do? Are you O.K.?
Are you almost done, or what?
 Well...
I mean, whatta looking for - a story!?  Here...CREAMER VERSUS CREAMER..It won an award.
 Thank you..that'll be fine...
Uch...These people.... So, you were attacked. My God. But you're all right...  So where did you sleep last night?
I...I stayed at a friends. Listen, I-
 Please...before you go on... let me tawk...o.k...We've had a wonderful time together... even though there's a year age difference, the wrong way.. When we first met, you said this wasn't serious and I shouldn't get serious and then you moved in and we haven't been serious. And I just wanna say that I have no regrets. None. And don't wanna have any now so I want ya to be up front with me.. I want the truth. If your seein somebody else, let me know... You don't have to pour gasoline on yourself and light a match just to stop seeing me. I'll say God bless and we'll part ways...just tell me the truth.
I'm not seeing anyone else. I really was attacked.
O.K.
...I love you....  ...You don't have to say it back... although it wouldn't kill you. I'll cook tonight.
You sure you don't want to call the police?
No...I don't think I could explain. You know what the Holy Grail is?
The Holy Grail? Yeah...I know that. It was like - Jesus' juice glass.  Oh, I used to be such a Catholic.
You still believe in God?
Oh sure..Gotta believe in God.  But I don't think God made man in his own image. No. Cause most of ... the bullshit that happens, is because of men. No, I think man was made out of the devil's image and women were created out of God - because women can have babies which is sorta like creating, and which also explains why women are attracted to men, because, lets face it, the devil is a helluva lot more interesting - I slept with a few saints and let me tell you... BOOOORRING!!! ...And so the whole point of life, I think, is for men and women to get married so the devil and God can live together and, ya know - work it out.....
... You have a little...uh... something on your face...
Oh, I got a pimple..This stuff is supposed to blend with my skin color... Like it really works, ya know...
I don't think I'm up to it tonight..  I slept in a boiler room...I...
I think I'm getting sick...  I'm...just not in the mood!..O.K!
Whatsa matter hon - can't sleep?
I tell you something, Anne. I really feel like I'm cursed.
Oh stop. Things will change. My Aunt Mary always said, there's a remedy for everything in this world except death and having no class.
That's just what it feels like. A curse. I can't seem to... I get this feeling like I'm this magnet but I attract shit.  Out of all the people in this city, why did I meet a man who's wife I killed?
You didn't kill anybody. Stop.
I wish there was some way I could.. just...pay the fine and go home. 
I know. I know honey.
Anybody here?..Uh...Parry?
 Hey there!
YEAH - Can I help you?
Oh, it's you...I'm...just looking for Parry...
He's not here.  Ya mind my asking what your doing with this guy - I mean, you seem like a regular person.
I'm sort of...an old acquaintance of his wife's.
Oh. Beautiful woman...
Yeah...I guess, there's nothing of hers' here, huh?
No. I got that stuff upstairs. The hospital said it'd be better.
Can I see it?
She was a beautiful girl...He was crazy about her.
Parry?
 Hi. Listen, I thought maybe you could use-...
Sshhh.
Isn't she a vision?
Let's go.
NO...wait, really. I just wanted to give you...
She's loves dumplings. It's her Wednesday ritual.
Isn't she sweet? She does that everytime.
She buys a new book every two days.
 She's into trash. Whadda you gonna do?
She's got a real sweet tooth. If anybody ever told me I'd be in love with a woman who eats Jawbreakers, I'd said they were nuts.  But look at that jaw!
Do you follow her every day?
Huh-huh. I'm deeply smitten.
What's her name?
I don't know.
What's this for?
Uh...I just would like to help you. I thought...maybe...you could use some money.
Tch...isn't that nice of you. Awww...
 That's O.K.
Can I take you to lunch?
No..I have to get back to work. Take care of yourself.
HEY!!...HEY!
 FUCKKAMAL...BASTAA..NOCOIDETION...
 Well, I think you should be realistic. Ya can't start an ad agency on fifty dollars!
What are you doing? I gave that to you.
Well what am I gonna do with it?
I don't know. But I gave it to you...to help YOU...not him.
You really want to help me?
I read there's an alarm system on the doors and windows but there IS a skylight on the roof - so I think that would be the best way. What do you think?
You can't just break into this man's house. This man has done nothing.
Jack, I have to get...
All right! Listen - please...don't start drooling or...rolling your eyes when I tell you this but - You shouldn't do this..There is no Holy Grail.
Tch. You are so sweet. You're afraid I'm in danger. You're trying to protect me.
No. I think you're a moron and I don't want to get into trouble.
...You are such a great guy. First the fifty, now this.
 Please don't hug me in public again, O.K.?
 I LOVE THIS MAN...YA HEAR ME...
My God...
I'M DAFFY ABOUT THIS GUY AND I DON'T CARE WHO KNOWS IT!!!
Will you shut-up!!!
You're a true friend.
I'm not. Believe me. I'm scum.
You're a real honest to goodness good guy.
I'm self-centered, I'm weak - I don't have the will power of a fly on shit...
That's why the Little People sent you.
I don't believe in Little People. I used to try to kill Tinkerbell by not clapping.
So, you're going to help me get the Red Knight, aren't you?
WILL YOU PLEASE...please listen to me  You know none of this is true - the Grail, the Little People, all of it. There's a part of you that knows this isn't true.
 Jack...
I know who you are...or who you were. You don't belong on the streets. You're an intelligent man...you're a teacher...
You're acting really weird Jack.
Parry..or what ever your name is... Let me help you. . THERE - IS - NO - RED-KNIGHT!
Oh yeah? Then who do you call that?
Call who!?
God he's beautiful...He knows I'm close to it. He's afraid. I can tell.
You're totally gone, aren't you?
COME ON!!!
Jesus.
What is going o-
Oh...Oh...Oh God...I'm dying. I can't breath and I'm dying.
Ssshhh.
He's gone.
 WHO! WHO'S GONE?!! WHO HAVE WE BEEN CHASING!?? CAN I ASK THIS QUESTION NOW!!!
I'm sorry Jack. I thought you saw him.
SAW WHO!!?
 The Red Knight! The horse! I finally saw him!
That's it! I gave you the money you want to keep it fine, you want to give it away - fine.  I JUST WANT YOU TO KNOW, I DID GIVE HIM THE MONEY! O.K.! ARE WE CLEAR?!
 Jack, who are you talking to?  Are THEY here?
Who?  The Little Persons?
 Can you hear them now?
 Yeah, I hear them.  And they're saying to me "Jack, go unto the liquor store and findeth the Jack of Daniels that ye may be shitfaced.  DOOLANG...DOOLANG..."
 Do you hear THAT?
This is too hard.
GET AWAY!  I WANNA GO!  I WANNA GO NOW!
Hey...Come on, we'll help you up. You can't sit here.
NO!  I want a debutante on a horse to step on me.
 Parry...
Buddy, the days of the debutantes are...not what they used to be.
 Isn't that awful?  Poor Brenda Frazier.  Poor Little Gloria. They ruined them!  THEY ATE THEM ALIVE!
 It was a crime.
Leave me alone...I wanna go...
Will you get the other side.  Jack?
Listen, he just needs to sleep it off.  Someone will take care of him.
Who?
Well, maybe he wants to stay here.  Do...do you want to stay here?
 Oh, yes, thank you - I really love bleeding in horseshit.  How very Gandhiesque of you.
 Will you watch him for a minute?
I wanna go...just let me go...
Uh...Where...where do you want to go?
 Ah...can't get there.  Not tonight.
 Well, maybe you can.  Where do you want to go?
Venice.  Like Katherine Hepburn in SUMMERTIME.  Why can't I be Katherine Hepburn? 
 Well...What ...what did you do? You know, what...were you?
 I was a singer.  Ya know, stage... summer stock...God.  I could do CABARET - backwards - every part.  But what does it all mean?
 You know, you always have such a cheerful effect on me.  I wanna die...I just wanna... die...
 HORN...A HORN...
 Where the hell am I gonna put the children?  Goddamn daughter-in-law! Comes into my house looking for dustballs!
Thorazine!
PINNOCHIO...GODDAMN IT!
Come on, Jack.  We're going to be late.  It's almost five!
 Um...I've got to run.  I've been doing this all day.  Are you going to be all right?
Please - I was born a Catholic in Brooklyn...I've been to hell and I survived...It's O.K...
You'll never see her in this crowd.
She walks the same trail every day.  Just keep your eyes on the newsstand.
 They don't even look at him.
 They're paying so they don't have to look.
Poor guy.  What must he feel?
Grateful.  His name's Sid.  Great guy.  Says everyday he can sit in the middle of Grand Central and watch the rush hour, he's won...I mean, you have to admit...
Margaret.
God.  Just one night with her. I'd die happy.
GOT NO SUNSHINE, GOT NO RAIN STILL I THINK I'M A LUCKY DAME I GOT THE SUN IN THE MORNING AND THE MOON AT NIGHT....
KNOCK THREE TIMES...ON THE CEILING IF YOU WANT ME...TWICE ON THE PIPE
Ya fuckin' bastard.  I don't need this...  ...I Do Not Need This!  A woman my age...I am a person.  This is kid stuff.  You come!  You go! And all I do is cook like a jerk! You're a waste of good cutlets...I don't need this...Find yourself another dope...ya fuckin' bastard...
This is a very popular tree with the crack dealers.
What I don't understand is - so you catch them in a net - what good is that?  They don't go to jail.
Jails are crowded.  The way I think is...if you can just...annoy them on a regular basis...let them know there are forces out there that are out to stop them - forces they can't see or even fight... maybe, eventually, they'll give up and the Red Knight won't be able to use them.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah...right - but, why...not just go after Carmichael.  I mean, call the police, call the newspapers - put some pressure on him to fork up the uh...ya know...the cup.
What a beautiful night.
Don't you think we should be getting out of here - it's getting late...
...What are you doing?
Have you ever done any cloudbusting?  See, you take your clothes off, you lie on your back and you concentrate on staring at the clouds...and you try to break them apart with your mind. It's wild.
Parry, you can't do this.  It's dangerous.
Well, that's stupid.  This is my park just as much as it is theirs. You think it's fair they keep us out just because they make us think we'll get killed or something?
Yes.  I think that's very fair.
Come on, try it.  Ya feel the air on your body - ya little fella's flappin' in the breeze...everybody in the city is busy with their business an no one knows we're bare assed in the middle of it. Come on!
NO!  I'm leaving!  I mean it...this is nuts.  You're going to get yourself killed.  I'm leaving.  I mean it!
 YOU'RE OUT OF YOUR FUCKING MIND!!
They're not moving.
Sshhh.
You sure no one's coming?
Why do you care?
I don't know how I would explain this.  "JACK LUCAS FOUND DEAD NAKED - BESIDE ANOTHER DEAD, NAKED MAN...THE TWO WERE DEAD...AND NAKED"...It'll probably boost my biography sales.  People have a fascination for murdered naked celebrities.
You're a celebrity?
Listen...it was a little over a year ago...Something happened... I...  I caused...I was responsible for--
Man, you are wound up so tight, Jack.  I venture to say if I stuck a coil up your ass I could roast marshmellows.  You oughta relax a bit.
 How do you do it?  How do you get through every day the way you do?
Did you ever here the story of the Fisher King?
It's all about this king who lived in the castle where the Holy Grail was kept.  Now this king was a good man, but he'd been through some awful times - tragedies, betrayals, disappointments, abandonment...So much so, that the older he...got, the more bitter about life he became...
Is that who you are...my fool?
 The Fisher King myth has a lot of derivations...I remember I was at this lecture in Princeton once. It was this awful weekend seminar in occidental Mythology but there was this one speaker Dr...uh... Doctor...uh...um...
Nothing...Listen, how come you've never asked that girl for a date? ...Parry?
How come you've never asked that girl for a date?
I don't know.  I thought it might upset our relationship.
Well...would you go on a date with her if it...happened?
God yeah.  SShhh.
HEY!  WHAT THE FUCK!  SHIT!  GET ME THE FUCK DOWN FROM HERE!!
Ha...Look they're moving.  Am I doing that?
Could you help me - what was the name of that girl who just came in...
I didn't notice. What girl?
Uh..she was wearing a kind of a flouncy...uh...plain...uh...
 Oh, Lydia.
Lydia. Lydia what?
God...I have no idea. She's worked here for fifteen years and I have no idea...Wait, I'll call her...
NO..no..that's all right...I thought I knew her....Thanks...
Yes.  Howard Publishing?  May I speak to Lydia please.
Can I have my desk please.
I just have to make this...  Hello, I'd like to speak to Lydia?
Lydia?!  Lydia who!?
 I don't know her last name... I'll be off in a second.
You're calling LYDIA in MY office. You must think I'm some dope. You fuckin bastard.  You stay out all night long...
 What..No..Lydia...I want to speak to her name is Lydia...I..uh...
 ...I don't get a friggin phone call. You stroll in here at noon..I got... ...Two people out sick. Ya think I need this? I Do Not Need This!
...FORGET IT...GOODBYE! 
I was not with a woman last night. I was out with Parry.
The moron?
He's not a moron.
And who's Lydia?
Lydia is the girl Parry likes. And I thought, if I could get them together I..
What? The curse'll be lifted? WILL YOU PLEASE!
I...You're not going to understand this.
Don't treat me like I'm stupid. It pisses me off.
All right..Sorry...I feel in debt to him.
 What does that mean?
See, I told you!
Well, what the hell does that mean?
I thought...if...if I can help him in some way...you know?..Then... maybe.... things'll start changing for me.. My luck, ya know...Maybe...
Oh you poor kid...You're a mess.
things have happened.
Hello Lydia?
 Yeah? Who is this?
This is Jack Lucas and I'm calling from Video Stop video rentals.
Yes.
Yes well...  You are a credit card holder, are you not?
Huh-huh.
Well, congratulations Lydia, because out of several thousand card holders,... in conjunction with several major credit card companies... you have just won a free membership at our store on Second Ave.
 How did this happen?
Your name was picked.
 Well, I don't understand. What did you do - did you pick my name out of a hat or...or..a list?
A list.
Well - were there alot of people in the room or just you or what?
 Well there....  What's the difference?
Well, I mean...I don't know you. This has never...I've never won anything and...I don't have a VCR.
You get a VCR with the membership.  ..For a short time until you get you're own. Listen, why don't you come down to the store and you can check it out. See if you're interested.
Did Phyllis in accounting tell you to call me?
 NO! I TOLD YOU! YOU WON A CONTEST!
 Remember. One chorus and out.
I'm a man with a mission, Jack.
I can't believe I'm on a first name basis with these people...
Can I...help you?
Is there a mousy woman who works here named Lydia?
Yes..if you'll wait here I'll...
This is a personalized message. I have to give it in person.
You MUST be the one.
Huh?
 WELCOME - LYDIA - WELCOME....
...WELCOME TO VIDEO STOP - VIDEO RENTALS... YOU HAVE...JUST WOOOON..A FREE MEMBERSHIP... FOR MORE..DETAAAILS...LALALALALALLA...DA!..DA!
 WELCOME! LYDIA!!! WELCOME!!!  TO VIDEO STOP...TO VIDEO STOP FOR VIDEO RENTAALLLLSSS!  Jesus...
Hello. My name is Lydia Sinclair.
Yes. Hi. Congratulations. Jack Lucas. Nice to meet you finally. This is Anne Napolitano, the owner of Video Stop.
 Hello..Congratulations.
And this is our other..uh...worker.. Parry..uh...  Parry.
 So how do we do this?
Well...um...you get an official membership card...  Just sign that and we'll laminate it right here...Parry? You want to laminate Miss Sinclair's card?...
....Parry?
This will last you one year after which you have the option to renew if you like at a membership discount.
 But now it's free, right?
Yeah.
Now what?
Uh...you...you can pick out up to ten movies....
Free?
Yes. They're free.
 Only the first ten. After that they're 2.99 a rental.
...Can...can I help you?
No. No...I can look myself...
 How about...ZBIEGNEW SPEIZAK'S "THE PURPLE BREAD". 'an intensely portrayed tale of love and envy set against the sweeping background of a Polish bakery.'  In subtitles.
I don't like ... uh ...  Polish love stories...
...I like musicals.
 Well, we have plenty of those. Right over here.  We got the MGM series, Astaire and Rogers. the Judy Garlands, -
Got any Ethel Merman?
Uh....
What a gyp.
Yeah.
You know, I think I..I ordered some just the other day. They'll be in soon.
Well, I guess I'll come back then.
Here's your card.
I like your nails.
Thank you.
Where did you get them done?
Ah...I do them myself. I used to work in a beauty parlor.
 I like the stars.
You know, Anne does other people too. Sort of a sideline.....
How much?
Well, since you're a member, we could...
 Twenty dollars.
O.K...twenty dollars...When can you...
Tonight! How's tonight?
 Getting your nails done is one thing but going to dinner with a bunch of strangers and HIM...She didn't even look at him.
We'll make it very casual... ...not like a date or anything. I just have to find something he'll look good in.
I don't know. I mean, I've gone out with some bums in my time, but they were gorgeous. It's the only reason to go out with a bum.
Well, she's no Grace Kelly.
That's true. That outfit she wore! She looked like a centerpiece.
This coffee's delicious. And you have a lovely home.
Jack, he's talking to me.
Well talk back. He won't bite you.
 Thank you very much.
 Your welcome. You know, a beautiful woman like yourself - your own business - I'm surprised some guy doesn't snatch you up for his own.
 YOU'RE SURPRISED!...  But I guess I just never met the right guy. Whatta gonna do?
I'm shocked. With a child bearing body like yours...  ...Why a man would have to be out of his mind!
Most men are.
Why this is outrageous!....
 Go where?
 Come on - let us go to that place of splendor in the grass.
JACK!
HOLDIN MY PENIS... WHAT A LOVELY WAY OF SAYIN HOW MUCH YA LIKE ME...
WHAT ARE YOU, OUT OF YOUR MIND!
HOLDIN MY PENIS...
PARRY! Close your pants...
 You sure now?
What are you - a 40 in a jacket?
Hello...welcome....Come in.
I've never been in an apartment above a store. You always pass them on the street but you never think anyone really lives in them.
 Can I get you anything...coffee... tea...a little tequilla?
No, thank you.
Will it hurt?
 That all depends on you. ...Sure you don't want a drink?
...So he says to me, "you'll never find another man like me"...I said, "please, men like you have one hand on their dicks and the other hand on their mother's leg... I said, there's the door - take a trip.
 You threw him out?
My parents were divorced.
It's an awful thing, let me tell you.  "divorce is the sister-in-law of death".
...SO...anybody special in your life?
 Do I look like I have someone special?
Well, don't say it like that. It's not so...ya know, crazy an idea. You are a healthy woman...You hold a steady job. Ya not crossed eyed or anything...
 Well, there's nobody special!
Fine.
I mean, it's not easy in this day and age.
What?
Meeting ... people.
Tell me about it. I've been dating longer than I've been driving. I can't believe that.
I never really...went through a... dating period.
It's a disgusting process. You haven't missed anything.
You know those shoes are old. You keep pacing like that, you're going to walk into the apartment barefoot.
I'm excited.  You must have felt this way when you first met Anne, huh? Where did you two meet?
In a bar called Hellfire.
Awww...how romantic. Yeah. If I wasn't already committed to Lydia, boy. Except Anne'd never go for me though. She loves you too much. And you really love her, huh?
No. But that's not the only reason people get together or..stay together.
What are the other reasons?
Survival.
You love her alot Jack. You're ... crazy about her... I know it. It's just that, sometimes -  you're a little bit of jerk.
Come here...you're all crooked.
...You're a nice man, Jack. Doing all this for me...
I'm scared Jack.
No. Nothing bad's going to happen. Anne'll be there. I'll be there. Nothing bad will happen.
 ...My mother calls every week. Like a recurring nightmare. "So, have you met anyone?"..."No mom".. "So what's going to happen?"... "I don't know Mom"... I only thank God I moved out.
I can't believe you lived with her for that long. If I had to live with my mother, I'd stab myself six times.
Maybe I'm meant to be alone. Maybe I was a man in a former life and I used women for pleasure so now I'm paying for it.
You have to not try so hard.
 I don't feel like I have any effect on people. At parties I usually spend my time re-arranging the hors d'oeuvres as people eat them, so the platters will always look full. I don't start conversations because I have no idea how to end them..... I think some people are just born to live in the background of things.
Don't say that...I think you have a very  effecting personality...we're having a lovely conversation.
I'm paying you.
You know, let me tell you something! I'm not that kind of person. I don't do people favors. If I talk to you it's because I want to. O.K., you're a little plain - but we can't all be..uh...Jerri Hall. You do the best you can. You're not so helpless and desparate.... You want a personality. Try this;  you can be a real bitch.
 Really?
Yeah!
Now, you have to sit for at least a half hour or, I'm telling you... Ya want another drink?
 Oh hi? How's it going?
Hello..
Parry, it's Lydia Sinclair - our membership winner.
 I know!  Hi.
 Hi.
 What are you two up to?
Well..everything's closed up. We thought we'd get some dinner.  Say!....  Have you eaten? Would you like to come along?
 Oh, no..I have to get home...
The nails!! Watch the nails!!...  Listen, you still have to eat.
No really..I don't want to impose.
Hey? What did I tell you?  Why don't you come? It's just dinner. You'll have something to tell your mother next time she calls.
So what do you think?
Well...like my Aunt Margie said - Some matches are made in heaven... and some are made in hardware stores.
....What's the matter?
I'm beginnning to understand you.
 ...I..uh..I get to read some of the books but mostly I..just calculate production costs from first edition hard cover publication to paperback. After paperback it's basically someone else's problem.
It sounds exciting.
 Why does it sound exciting? There's absolutely nothing exciting about it.
 Well, you're calculating costs that could have an affect on whether or not the book is published and if it is, it could be a book that...
We mostly publish trashy romance novels.
Well - empires have fallen because of trashy romances.
Hey Martin...!
Parry? Don't you look all duded up!
This is Lydia!
Nice to meet you Lydia! Got a quarter?!
How do you know him?
Martin worked for the sanitation department until...
PARRY!
SO .... what do you do?
Well, I'm in search of the Holy Grail.
PARRY!
 How about The Szechuan House?
 I'll tell you later.
Oh..I could eat all of these
Oh..god...
Oh boy...
 Can't take us anywhere, huh?
SMACK..SMACK...SMACK...
"LYDIA...OH LYDIA...THAT ENCYCLOPEDIA OH LYDIA THE TATTOOED LADY..."
Would it be all right...I mean would you mind...if I walked you home tonight?
I tell ya, I'm very surprised. She seemed to like him very much. He wasn't that bad looking either. I mean, he's still a little on the disgusting side but some women go for that...
You know, I can't believe I did it. She really likes him.
 ...I think you should feel very proud. You did a real nice thing for somebody else. I'm very proud.
You were great. Thanks alot.
Your welcome.
Oh my.
Tell me more. I want to know everything.
There isn't any more to tell.
Don't say that.
 No, really..believe me - there isn't any more. This is it.
Well, it's enough for me.
You don't have to say that.
I never say anything I have to.
I mean you don't have to say nice things to me...That kind of thing is a little old fashioned for what we're about to do.
What are we about to do?
Well...you're walking me home I ..I guess you're sort of... attracted to me and you'll want to come upstairs for...coffee...
I don't drink coffee...
 ...and then we'll probably have a drink and talk and get comfortable with each other and...and we'll...then you'll sleep over and then in the morning  you'll be distant and you won't be... able to stay for breakfast...you'll just have some coffee maybe...
I don't drink coffee...
And then we'll exchange phone numbers and you'll leave and never call and I'll go to work and feel great for the first hour and then slowly turn into a piece of dirt by lunch. Why I am I putting myself through this?  It was very nice...  uh meeting you. Goodnight..
Excuse me...
Listen, I'm not feeling well.
Well no wonder. We just met, made love and broke up all in the space of thirty seconds and I can't even remember the first kiss which is the best part.
Listen, you're very nice.
So are you, but I think maybe you should shut-up now...
Oh..You mean you don't want to.
 Oh no, I want to.  I've got a hard-on for you the size of Canada ... but I don't want just one night. I have a confession to make?
You're married.
No.
Divorced.
No, I...
You have a disease.
Will you stop!.....  ...I'm in love with you....
....It's not just from tonight. I've known you for a long time. I see you come out of work everyday. I walk with you to lunch. I know what you order...I see you buy Baby Ruths before going back in...  I know how you feel on certain days by whether or not you go into the bookstore.....
...I know you hate your job and you don't have many friends and you sometimes feel like you're not as...as wonderful as everybody else and you're a little uncoordinated
Shhh...
 You are real, aren't you?
Please let me have this.
SSTTTOPPP!!
NOOOOOOOO!...COME ON!...WHERE ARE YOU!!!! WHERE ARE YOU!! (softer; dropping to his knees) Where are you...
...We're tired of looking at you people...
Whatcha doin?
I'm trying to get these in to some order. I'm going to call a few agents tomorrow. Make some appointments.
 Really? Oh Jack, that's terrific.
Yeah...I...  I feel real good Anne. I don't know, I ... feel good and I feel ready.  I don't know how else to say it.
No, no, I understand....God, I think it's great.  It's so good to see you like this.  Ya know, I'm thinkin - with another income coming in, I would love to get a bigger place.
Huh?
I don't want to rush things - you have to get a job first, but I'm so sure that's gonna happen I'm not even thinking about it.
... But, I would love to start looking at least. You know, maybe a two bedroom or even, maybe the top floor of a house - like in Brooklyn or Staten Island...
No, it's not-...Come here...
You're an incredible woman Anne-
What?
"I'm an incredible woman?"  What is this, a death sentence?
No, I ... I just want to talk about it.
 You want to talk? Come on, Jack... Did I cross the line by mentioning the future or what?
No..it's just...
Slowed things down? Where have I been? Have we been going fast!?
Right now, I'm just not sure about things.
What things!?
Will you let me talk!...It's been. a real...difficult time for me... The past year or so...And now, for the first time, I feel like I'm above water. I feel like I know alot more than I did, and I want the time to make the right choices. And...I think that maybe...I need to be alone for awhile.
I need to clear my head, Anne. Like I said, I feel like I know alot more now and-
 First of all, let me tell you something- you don't know shit. Second of all, what time? What time do you need? What have we been doing here, except TIME? Have I ever...ever pressured you!
No.
No. So what time do you need? I love you - you love me - you want to start your career, great! I want to be a part of it - I deserve that! What do you need to figure out!?
All right. I'm going to ask you one question.  Do you love me?
I don't know.
You can't even give me that. You were just gonna organize your life...  ...walk out that door, move in by yourself and what - drop the news when you find somebody else? What were you planning to do Jack?
I didn't know. I just said all I want is some time.
 Bullshit! If you're going hurt me, you hurt me now - not some long drawn out hurt that takes weeks of my life because you don't have the balls!
All right...I'll pack my stuff tonight.
What have you been doing here! HUH! I WANNA KNOW!
LISTEN! We both got something out of it, all right!
Oh yeah?  What did I get? What did I get I couldn't've gotten from somebody with no name any night of the week? You think your company is such a treat? Your moods, your  "pain", your problems...You think you're entertaining?
Then what to you want to stay with me for?
BECAUSE I LOVE YOU!...STUPID!...FUCKIN!...
No. You don't get to be nice. I'm not a modern woman Jack. I don't like being friends with men I used to love. No way...
Hello?..Yeah...My wallet, what do you mean?...  What?....What?
He was brought in early this morning.  Must have been lying there for hours.  He's lost a lot of blood.
Parry?
He can't hear you.
I have his record here.  Henry Sawyer - brought in a few years ago - catatonic stupor rendering him non-verbal for over thirteen months...
I know.  I know all about it.
Well, it says he was sent to a psychiatric hospital.
I know all this.  Why are you telling me this?
Well - his beating's bad but... that's not the problem.  I'm afraid he's re-experiencing the same symptoms of his earlier condition.
What are you saying?
Sometimes victims of tragedies are subject to the brain's replay system.  The brain never loses anything - it just stores it up and waits.  A person could actually re-experience the full effect of a tragedy, long after the actual incident took place.
Is there anything you can do?
Knowing his history, I'd say no. Was he having hallucinations?
Yes.
 That's in keeping with the diagnosis.  The nervous system has these - neural secretions that actually cause hallucinations to protect the ego from something it can't handle.
But he was happy.
There are people who have been through great tragedy that have a harder time with feeling good than feeling bad.  It's not as familiar...it can bring back the pain of what was lost.  Are you a relative?
No.  Just a friend.
Well, it doesn't matter then anyway.  We're going to have to send him back to the same institution.  They have the facilities there he needs.
Well...What if I was a relative?
You'd have the option to care for him at home, but it wouldn't be the best thing for him.  He needs hospital care.  I just thought you could sign the necessary releases, but the city can do that.  There's really nothing anybody can do.  I wouldn't feel responsible in any way.  There's nothing you can do.
Poor Lydia...First guy who shows any interest at all and he winds up in Bellevue...
Anne...Anne, I'll call you, all right?
...So, if you're an aspiring Picasso-salad maker, or if you just want to find out exactly what IS a multi-flavored pickle - come down to the Patterson Mall, this Saturday right off Route 130..
Did they say when they were shooting for?
No, they didn't go into scheduling, but I'm telling you Jack - they are really hot on this.  As soon as I said the phrase "cable talk show with a difference",,,I am telling you, his face lit up. He said they've been trying to develop something along those lines with these, you know, up & coming comedians, but nothing has worked out. When they heard it was you-
Did they know about me?
They knew what happened. They figured you dropped out for personal reasons, which they were. But Jack..  they were not at all - in any way - turned off by it.  Really honey. It's going to be great. SO I want you to write it down in your book - a week from tomorrow, 3:30...
Oh, and Daddy wants to take us out to dinner Friday. The car's coming for us at seven.
Honey...honey..I feel all dirty and stinky. Why don't I take a bath, we get into bed...we can talk about next week...
 That's all right. Why don't you take a bath, get into bed...  I'm going to uh...I wanna buy a pack of cigarettes...
You don't smoke.
Sometimes I do...
 Well, you better wait a little bit-  Mr. Baldy's watching the parade.
Got any change?
You remember me?..I'm a friend of Parry's...Have you seen Parry?
Got any change?
Excuse me, but the bed sheets I brought last week...
Oh, yes...I'm sorry. They're being cleaned. One of the doctors had a little accident with a hypo.
All right. Thank you.
Hey..Sorry I haven't been around. I've been working and...and..it's uh...been..hard...ya know, it takes alot out of ya to get things back on track. Ya know?..You look good...You do.
EMPTY_LINE
I was never good at this in gym.
 Listen, I'll just tell them the truth.  I was stealing a gift for a sick friend.  Public opinion will be on my side.
Oh terrific. I'm hearing horses now.  Parry will be so pleased! He's finally turned me into a moron too...  I can just see the headlines. EX-RADIO PERSONALITY TURNS SCREWBALL ON MISSION FROM GOD...I just hope there's a vacant bed -  Right next to his!
A crazed radio personality dangles from the townhouse of billionaire...
 Anne.
MRS. LINDSTROM, P.S. 247 CHRISTMAS PAGENT, 1939
 Right out the front door, huh?
 Hey Jack...Jack?  I had this dream Jack...I was married. I had a wife...A beautiful wife. I don't remember her face too well, but I remember her. 'Cause she died Jack...Yeah, she died....  And you were there...  I really miss her. Is that O.K. Jack? Can I miss her now?
LYDIA'S POV
Hiya sweetheart! Where you been!?
Don't cry...Hey...
Come!...
 How have you been?
 Terrific. Going on alot of dates... seeing lots of men...lots of dates.. And you?
Fine...I...I..uh...
 I haven't heard from you in a while...
I heard you on the radio...Very funny.
Thanks.  I...uh....I've
 What? I got the weekend crowd coming in!
I love you.
 Excuse me, I didn't get that! Wanna run it by me again.
I think.. I...I realized...I love you.
Huh-huh....  You son of a bitch!
I love you.
Jesus. What rock hit YOU in the head?
Beautiful night.
Mmmmm.
You know those Little People you used to hear?
Yeah.
Have you heard from them recently?
Sure. Spoke to them last week. They say hi!
Ssshhhh.
I'm getting tired of this shit.
You think maybe one day I'll get to see them - the Little People.
I'm sure of it.
Have you ever tried busting stars?
