This is the most famous true story of Africa. It happened a hundred years ago, but even now, when children ask about it, you do not tell them at night. (The FIGURE continues to grow) It began with the race to build a railroad across Africa.  But this is not about building a railroad- it is about Patterson.
Patterson was thirty. A brilliant engineer. A fine man, but do not become attached to him- there are many fine men in this story but do not become attached to any of them.  So many of them die.
And remember this: only the impossible parts of what follows really happened... (Now the door opens and we-)
 John Henry Patterson, come in. I'm Robert Beaumont.  Firm- I like that, tells me a lot about you-  -now why don't you tell me about me? To get you started, many people find me handsome, with a wonderful smile. I'm sure you agree. (Surprised, uncomfortable, Patterson nods) Winning personality, heaps of charm?
My wife is the game player in the family, sir.
Games?  Look at me closely, Patterson: I am a monster. My only pleasure is tormenting people who work for me, such as yourself. (again the smile - only now it's chilling) One mistake and I promise you this: I'll make you hate me.
 We are building this railroad across Africa for the glorious purpose of saving Africa from the Africans. And, of course, to end slavery. The Germans and French are our competition. We are ahead, and we will stay ahead providing you do what I hired you to do-
-build the bridge over the Tsavo river. And be finished in four months time. Can you do that?
I'm sure you've examined my record. So you know I've never yet been late on a bridge.
You've never built in Africa.
But I have in India- every country presents problems.
You'll need your confidence, I promise you.
I've got a reason far beyond confidence: my wife is having our firstborn in five months and I promised I'd be with her when the baby comes.
Very moving, Patterson; I'm touched you confided in me.  But I don't really give a shit about your upcoming litter. I've made you with this assignment-  -don't make me break you.
 You won't have the chance.  Any further words of encouragement?  Then I've a train to catch.
I tried to be late, John- it would have been easier if you'd gone.
 We're not much good at goodbyes, Helena.
 Tell me about Beaumont- does he understand how brilliant you are, how lucky he is to have you?
It was embarrassing- the man showered me with compliments.
Oh dear-  -you're geting that downtrodden look again-
-well, it's just...  ...other men don't abandon their wives at such a time-
 -oh please- if I'd been against your taking this, you would have abandoned me. You've been desperate to see Africa your whole life.
What if there are complications?-
-not "what if"- there will be, there always are. Which only means that our "son" and I- note my confidence- will have an excuse to come visit.
Go, now.  Such a gentleman. 
I am desperate to see Africa- but I hate the leaving.
You build bridges, John-  -you've got to go where the rivers are.
 Many thanks.  You're Patterson, yes?  Nigel Starling- I'll be assisting you at Tsavo- but surely Beaumont must have told you that.
He just gave me his "monster" speech.
That. I know Robert seems dreadful, but when you truly get to know the man, well, he's much worse.  And I'm one of his defenders.  Forget him for now- it's your first ride to Tsavo- I think you'll find it breathtaking. 
 "Breathtaking" doesn't begin to do it justice. (As Starling starts to laugh, his mouth opens and sand flies in, and his coughing fit returns and)
Aren't they amazing?
You know the most amazing thing about them?- they only sleep five minutes a day. (Starling glances at him- clearly, he didn't know that)
Don't much like them.
 The females are bigger- only animal here like that- have to be or they wouldn't survive because the males eat the young.
Anything special about them?
Just that they fart through their mouths.  Must make kissing something of a gamble.
 I've lived in Africa a year and I don't know what you know. How long have you been here?
 Almost three hours.  But I've been getting ready all my life. 
 Every time I see something like that, I know we're right to be here- to bring Christianity into their lives, enrich their souls.
Beaumont says it's to end slavery.
 We all have our reasons. Mine is simply to make them understand happiness, accept salvation, know the serenity that comes-  -best I stop. One of the by-products of my belief is that I can become amazingly boring. But I know God smiles on me.
 Have you got that in writing? (Starling, amazingly good natured, laughs. And now-)
Welcome to Tsavo. 
 Samuel is camp liaison- absolutely indispensable- the only man here everyone trusts.
 Does he speak English?
 And very poor French.
 Samuel- John Patterson.
 The bridgebuilder- (gesturing to the working men) -we have been getting ready for you.
Excellent. Could I see the bridge site? 
I've got medical supplies to deliver. Come along to the hospital when you're done. 
I will bring him, Nigel.
Why do the workers look unhappy?
Because they are here.  Because Tsavo is the worst place in the world.  Come, John- to the bridge. 
 It's all wonderfully under control, Samuel- you've done a splendid job.
Thank you. The truth is this: you have to work at it constantly.
The workers don't get on?
Get on? They detest each other. Obviously the Africans hate the Indians. But the Indians also hate the other Indians. Some of them worship cows, while others eat them. 
 Railhead is across there.
Three thousand men laying track- when the bridge is done, it all joins up.
Did it look like this in your mind?
 This is more difficult-
 -but how wonderful that it's difficult, it should be difficult- what better job in all the world than build a bridge?- make things connect- bring worlds together- and get it right! 
Finish your tour?
 And anxious to get started.  What is this, mostly malaria?
Yes- but their suffering is only transitory- once they except God into their hearts, He will vanquish all pain.
That's just vomitous talk, Nigel- the poor bastards will relapse if you keep on that way. 
 I'm David Hawthorne, this is my hospital. And my advice to you is, "don't get sick in front of it."  That was meant to be charming, sorry. I seem to have lost the knack.
You never had it.
Nigel and I don't like each other much.
 I am also liaison between these two.
 Clearly you don't agree about building the railroad?
This sham? Ridiculous. Who needs it? It's only being built to control the ivory trade, make men richer.
Then why do you stay?
Who else would hire me?  Beat you to it, didn't I?  Oh yes, almost forgot- brought you a little welcoming gift. 
This is Karim, one of my orderlies- attacked by a man-eater earlier today- first incident of that kind here.
 A man-eater attacks and you're such a buffoon you almost forget to mention it?
Well, he got away, didn't he?  Riding a donkey not far from here when the lion sprang on them- donkey took the brunt of it- then suddenly the lion ran off.
I know it's your first day and of course you must be tired from the journey-  -but what are you going to do about it?
 Karim will have to show me where it happened. And of course, I'll need the donkey.  With any luck, I'll sort it out tonight. (And he walks out, leaving an astonished Starling staring after him)
I couldn't believe it when you said "sort it out." As if it were the most normal thing in the world. "Ho-hum, what lovely tea, I think I'll bag a killer beast this evening, nothing much else going on anyway."
Well, he put me in a spot, didn't he? But that's all right- after all, I'm responsible for everything that happens here. And it certainly won't do much for morale if a man-eater's on the prowl.
 You said "of course" you'd need the donkey. Why "of course"?
 We know three things about man-eaters. First, they always return to where they've attacked before. Second, they're always old- they can't catch other animals so they turn to us. And third, they're always alone- they've been cast out by their pride because they can't keep up.
I don't suppose I could watch.
 Might be exciting for you.
I've never been all that adventurous. I wouldn't be in the way?
I'd love the company. And I've hunted all my life.
 Well, why not? You seem so calm and experienced.  Why not, indeed! 
 I hate to be a bother, John, but the cramp's getting worse. (Pulls up his trousers- his leg is knotted) The pain is actually quite unbearable now.
Shhh.
I'm sure you mean that to be comforting, but-
 -you'll have to deal with it, Nigel.
That is precisely my plan- but back in my tent. 
They own the night- nobody moves when there's a man-eater out there.
John? I know this isn't the time to ask, but-
What?
Since you'd only been here three hours when we met, are you sure this is how you hunt lions?
Not to terrify you, Nigel, but it's worse than you think- I've never even seen one.
 ...one shot...
 So that's what a lion looks like. 
One shot- one-
Patterson has made the nights safe again.
 BOOM! (Now as the crowd continues to grow-)
 All right, I'd like to start the embankments today-  -sufficient supplies on hand?
 More than.
With much more on the way-  -John- we could have had this chat on flatter ground-
-true enough- but without the comedy relief. (Starling, amazingly good natured, smiles, gets back up)
How lucky we are.
Aren't we full of ourselves today?  I think it's because of the lion.
Possibly.
 You know, I too have killed a lion.
How many shots did you need?
I used my hands.
All right- thee second embankment will go there. (He gestures toward the river)
You do plan to mark it a bit more precisely than just-  -"there."
 In your honor, Nigel. And you and Singh will be in charge of building them- and you'll also build the roadbeds and the three foundation pillars- and you'll be finished in eight thrilling weeks.
 John, it will not be easy.
Nigel, you'll just have to use your hands- (And he smiles, repeating Singh's gesture, both palms out)
What are they looking at?
You- they cannot believe you're still here.
Nonsense.
You don't know what Tsavo means, do you?  It means "slaughter"...
What the lion must have done, once he'd killed Singh, was lick his skin off so he could drink his blood-
-then he feasted on him, starting with his feet-
 -please- you needn't be so graphic-
You intend "sorting this out" tonight?
I'll try- but this feels so different- that old lion I killed could never carry off a man Singh's size.
 But you said they were always old.
That's what the books say... 
You were contracted to work-
 -malaria epidemic; very sudden.
Let me see the sick.
 Oh, you're a doctor now, too?
There is no reason for fear.
On that I choose to remain dubious.  Two are dead now in two nights. 
 Second death? Where?-
 -far end of camp- man wandering alone at night. Hawthorne's examining the body now.  There's even less of him than of Singh.
 But it's crazy- the lion shouldn't be that hungry this soon. (getting control- he looks to Samuel) Samuel?
We should construct thorn fences around every tent area. Fires burning at night.
Fine. Get started. And a strict curfew- no one allowed out at night.  Send half your men to the bridge, the rest with these two.  And I'm sorry for my tone earlier. But I repeat- there is no reason for fear. I will kill the lion and I will build the bridge.
Of course you will, you are white, you can do anything... (They look at each other. They are not friends. Now-)
Not good enough- look, it's got to be tighter. Tighter.
What a good week.
You mean nobody died?
 We all worked together. Worthy deeds were accomplished. I liked the labor.  My mother insisted on piano lessons- broke the dear woman's heart when I turned out to be tone deaf- but she still was always at me about being careful with my hands.  I like the blood, is that strange?
Oh yes, I think so. (Starling smiles, starts to speak)
Look out, Samuel, here it comes.
Even you two must admit that it is a glorious thing, what Man can accomplish. When there is a common splendid goal, there are no limits. Think what we will accomplish when we all have God's warmth in our hearts. (Samuel's eyes have closed; he begins to snore. Patterson can't help laughing)
I am immune to your disdain.  When I came here, I had but one small goal: to convert the entire continent of Africa.  Now I've decided to move on to something really difficult: I will not rest until both of you are safely in the fold.
I've had four wives, good luck.
The struggle is the glory... 
For you.
 Thank you, Samuel.
 Good news?
 I expect so- it's from my wife.
Do you love her?
I do, actually; very much.
 You give me hope, John. 
Darling one- the big excitement yesterday was when some school- children spotted a whale-  -they were looking at me, John-
That was an attempt at humor but I don't feel very funny these days. I miss you terribly and after our son- I still have total confidence- well, after he's born I think travel might be broadening. As he kicks me at night I'm quite sure he's telling me he definitely wants to come to Africa.  Thought you might need reminding.
 Jesus, two of them...
 -there's nothing wrong with your men so stop telling me there is-
 -you do not call me a liar- you know nothing of their health- consider yourself fortunate I persuaded so many to stay- consider yourself fortunate I have decided to stay-
 You think you matter? (gesturing toward the train which is close to stopping now) -Beaumont is on that train- he matters-
He sees this chaos, he'll replace you all.
He'll replace you, too- that's all you really care about.
You think so? Fine.  It's best you get out. Go. Tell all your people to go, run home where they'll be safe under the covers and when the bridge is built and the railroad is done, they can tell their women that out of all the thousands who worked here, they were the only ones to flee- (And he wheels around, starts to walk away as we-)
Pleasant journey?
 How could it be? I hate Africa.
Lovely sound- they seem happy.
Don't they, though?
So work must be going well?
 Truthfully?  There has been the occasional odd hiccup- but then, as you so wisely told me, I'd never built in Africa.
But overall, you're pleased?
 I have never experienced anything like it.
I almost feel like getting right back on. 
 I suppose it would be a dereliction of duty not to at least look around.
 Morning, friend, glorious day.
As are they all.
I do need to see Starling.
 Starling?
Awhile back he ordered some bibles-  -I've brought them.  Is he here?
 Yes he is.
Well, I need to speak to him.
 Let me deliver the bibles.
Excellent show.  Where is Starling?
Here he comes now. 
What in hell is going on?
The Ghost and The Darkness have come.
 In English.
It's what the natives are calling the lions-  -two lions have been causing trouble-
-what's the surprise in that, this is Africa?
It hasn't been that simple so far.
What have they done besides kill Starling?  How many have they killed? (Patterson nods for Hawthorne to answer)
Well, of course, I can't supply a totally accurate answer because there are those that are actually authenticated and there are those that we once thought were workers killing each other or deserting from camp so any number I give is subject to error-
 How many?
Thirty, I should think.
 Christ!  What are you doing about it? 
This is supposed to be salvation?  What kind of idiocy are we dealing with here?
 I'm calling it my "contraption"- we're going to surround it with a boma- a fence, to you- and we're going to leave a small opening opposite that door.
In that half will be bait- human bait- I'll start things off- (points to the open doorway) -a sliding door will fit above that and a trip wire will run across the floor.
 Genius- the beast will enter, tripping the wire, the door will slide down, trapping him, you, safe behind the bars, will have him at your mercy and will shoot him.
Are you running a high fever, man? How could you expect something as lunatic as this to succeed? How could you even conceive of it?
I didn't conceive of it for the lions- I built one in India when there was trouble with a tiger.
 And it worked?
 In point of fact, it didn't.  But I'm convinced the theory is sound.
What?
I made a mistake hiring you- you're simply not up to the job. 
You genuinely enjoy trying to terrify people, don't you? Well, fine-  -except there isn't a higher rated engineer and we both know that. And since time is so important to you, how long do you think it would take to find someone else qualified and bring him here?
Let me explain about time- you've been here three months and already two months behind. And the Germans and the French are gearing up. And I don't care about you and I don't care about the thirty dead- I care about my knighthood and if this railroad finishes on schedule, I'll get my knighthood and I want it. (glancing around as Samuel appears, goes to the workers) Professional hunters may be the answer.
All they'll bring is more chaos and we've plenty of that already- and if they come in, word will get out- and what happens to your knighthood then?
I'm going to try and locate Redbeard- I assume you've heard of him.
Every man who's ever fired a rifle has heard of him- by the time you find him, the lions will be dead.
 Very well, the job's still yours, I'll go. But if I have to return, you're finished. And I will then do everything I can to destroy your reputation. Am I not fair?  Told you you'd hate me. 
 I do hate him. (takes the bag from Samuel, pulls out flares) I want you to distribute one bag of flares to every tent area-  -tell the men to light them if there's trouble-  -make it two bags. 
"Dearest... ...peace and tranquility continue to abound here- the workers report each day with a smile- except for your absence, this whole adventunre is providing me nothing but pleasure..."
Fire.
 Very good indeed.
 We have hunted since childhood.
All right- you'll spend your nights inside. (He indicates the railroad car. The Coolies nod) You'll have plenty of ammunition. You're totally protected, you have really nothing to fear.
That is correct.  Nothing.
Not once?- you didn't hit it once?-
-I would never make excuses- but a fire broke out- the light was bad- he kept moving-
-well, of course he kept moving- but he couldn't have been more than ten feet away from the three of you- surely you must have wounded the thing-
I assure you we came close many times-
-the next time we will do better. (Patterson makes no reaction; moves outside)
The next time will be as this time- The Devil has come to Tsavo-
 -that's ridiculous talk and you can't seriously believe it-
 -now you're telling me my beliefs?- I don't think so-
I wasn't and you know it and don't push it- just listen- we have a problem in Tsavo-
 -at last you're right- we do- you are the problem in Tsavo-
-careful, Abdullah-
You do not tell me "careful"- you do not tell me anything- you listen while I talk- (Now suddenly a shadow seems to cross-)
-change in plan- you listen while I talk- because you have a question that needs answering.  Will I pull the trigger?
It's Redbeard, Abdullah- he'll kill you.
 No hints, Samuel.
 You don't know all that has happened here- the Devil has come to Tsavo.
You're right. The Devil has come. Look at me. I am the Devil.
 I am a man of peace.
Am I to take it you want to live?
Most certainly. Absolutely. Yes.
Excellent decision. (Now he suddenly reaches out, shakes Abdullah's hand) Your name is Abdullah? I'm sure we'll meet again. Go and enjoy the splendid morning.
 I think it's been a pleasure.
 You got old. (Now he releases Samuel, turns to Patterson) I'm sure you're John Patterson.  Stay out of my way. (And without another word, he's gone)
 I didn't have a chance to thank you.
 What did I do?
Got me out of trouble.
 Nonsense- Samuel would have done something. 
We need to talk.
Let me save time-  you are the engineer;  you are in charge; you're sorry I'm here. Right so far?  Good- because  I am not an engineer,  I don't want to be in charge, and  I'm sorrier than you are that I'm here- I hate Tsavo. So I will help you by killing the lions and leaving, and you will help me by doing what I tell you so I can leave. See any problems?
Actually, no.
All right- let's go into battle. (suddenly taking Patterson's hand) I'm Redbeard. 
Somehow I guessed. 
Starting now, we attack them.
How; we don't know where they are?
We'll have to make them come to us, won't we? And since there are two of them, we're going to set two plans in motion.  First: we must move the entire hospital by tomorrow night.
 That's a terrible idea-
 -is it, I'm sorry, but then, of course, you're the doctor, you should know.
Silliest thing I ever heard of- why in the world should we go through all that?
 I suppose I could answer you. I suppose I could explain that the place is so inviting, what with the smell of blood and flesh, that they have to strike. It's even possible that I tell you I found some fresh paw marks around back which means they're already contemplating feasting here. (Turning on Hawthorne now- his voice building) But I don't want to answer you because when you question me you are really saying that I don't have the least idea what I am doing, that I am nothing but an incompetent, that I am a fool.  Anyone who finds me a fool, please say so now.
 I have been desperate for Patterson to let me move the hospital since the day he arrived.
 Then we agree. 
Soon. 
 I have to ask- why do you need me?
I don't really. But understand something- even though it may take me two or three days to sort this out- (Patterson has to smile at the phrase) -when I'm gone, you'll still have to build the bridge. And I don't want the men to have lost respect for you.
 That's very considerate.
I'm always considerate- my mother taught me that.
Why do you laugh?- you don't believe she taught me?
I don't believe you had a mother. (And as Redbeard laughs too-)
You like him, don't you?
Oh yes. But it takes time.
You've known him long?
 Since his beard was red.
How many cattle?
Four should do it.
They will want a lot of money.
 Have you got it?
No, but you do-  -see, you were needed after all.  And fifty warriors at the camp before dawn.
 Why so many?
Because I have two plans to kill the lions- one involving the cattle, the other the men.
 The Ghost and the Darkness have come... and we can do nothing... but if you anger them... they will stay in Tsavo... and life will become more unberable, that I know...
 Two lions are all that have come... they're only lions, that I know.  And I will kill them both tomorrow. 
I'll need you by me in the morning.
Whatever you wish.
 You're certain about tomorrow?  But you don't seem excited. 
You don't enjoy killing, do you? 
Then why do it?
I have a gift.
Strange man.  Has he always been this way?
Much gentler now.
 John?- (He holds out his beautiful rifle) Change guns with me- mine's much more powerful. I'll be finishing the hospital tomorrow so I won't be with you- but if you'll use this...  ...then I will.
Thank you.  Why does he need you by him?
He doesn't. He needs nobody. But we have hunted many times...  ...he knows I am afraid of lions...
 I spotted one of them- (gesturing toward the thicket) -in there.
The best way to ensure the kill when you're using trackers is for one to shoot while the other uses the trackers to force the lion toward the shooter. Have you ever led trackers?
 I can try.
 Samuel says you killed a lion.
It was probably luck- I'd rather you did the shooting.
You'd never force the lion to me- and nobody ever got a lion with one shot by luck. (points- hand out straight) Around there's a clearing- you'll know it from the anthills- get there and hide and listen to the sounds- I'll make the lion come directly to you. (He gestures for Patterson to take off and as he does-)
 -all of you- spread the width of the clearing- no gaps- go- 
Shoot for chrissakes!-
Did you ever see a lion that size?
Not even close. (Now he moves to Patterson) What happened?
 ...misfire... it jammed...
Has it ever done that before?
...don't know...
It's Hawthorne's.
You exchanged weapons?  You went into battle with an untried gun? 
They have an expression in prizefighting: "everyone has a plan until they're hit."  You've just been hit...  ...the getting up is up to you... (And he turns, moves off and)
 Gentlemen, there's no sickness smell at all here, and little blood. When we leave, close the gate securely, don't open it til morning and keep your fires high. Any questions, ask them now. (They understand- now to Samuel and Hawthorne) You two will sleep beautifully in your tents.  And stay there.
And where will you sleep beautifully?
 Patterson and I will be in the old hospital- where the enticing smell of sickness still lingers-  -and by the time we're done, I promise you, the odor of blood will be irresistible. 
Think about something else.
Have you ever failed?
 Only in life... (He walks away. Patterson watches.)
Goddammit!
It's all right. Stay ready.  They know it's there.
 Meant to ask you- the railroad car trap. Your idea?  Excellent notion- I used the same device myself once.
But of course yours worked.
In point of fact it didn't- but I'm convinced the idea is sound.
 It would have been a beautiful bridge, John. I never noticed before, occupied with other business, I    suppose...  ...never really pay much attention to that kind of thing but I've had the time today, nothing else on, and this... it's graceful and the placement couldn't be prettier... and... (He goes silent now, stares off)
You just got hit.  The getting up is up to you- but they're only lions-  -and I'm going after them crack of dawn... 
In my town, when I was little, there was a brute, a bully who terrorized the place.  But he was not the problem. He had a brother who was worse than he. But the brother was not the problem.  One or the other of them was usually in jail. The problem came when they were both free togther. The two became different from either alone.  Alone they were only brutes. Together they became lethal, together they killed.
What happened to them?
 I got big. 
Dear God- 
Their den?  Have you ever seen anything like this?
Nobody's seen anything like this. Lions don't have caves like this-  -they're doing it for pleasure.
One of my chief attributes is that I'm always calm.
 Where could it have gone? How could it get across the water?  They're only lions, yes?
 Don't they have to be?...
 Both of them over there.
Ever have to use a machan?  I did once. In India. We will tonight. 
They're used to people in trees, not in a clearing.  It may be tight.
Not for me- I'm too bulky and it's your idea, you go up there.  Take the others to the water tower for the night.
I'll be bait alone?
Yes. And I'll be in some distant tree where I can provide no assistance whatsoever.  Can you control your fear?
I'll have to.
I can't control mine- I'd be lost without the shame factor driving me.
Was that supposed to make me feel better? (Redbeard doesn't reply. Now-)
 It's certainly the best chance they've had to kill you.
You think they'll come then?  Why?
 Good luck.
Why?
 Because I think they're after you.
How many do you think they've killed?
 The most of any lions... a hundred...?  Probably more. (Now Redbeard looks up at the younger man) Johnny...?
Don't fuck up. (And he turns, never looks back, just goes)
I think another for posterity- this is an important moment in my life.
Understand, I had help-
-not a time for modesty, Bob-
-undeniably your triumph.
Oh surely there's enough credit for us all- let's not forget, you did the actual shooting. Of course, I hired you, I was the general who put the team together. And generals are the ones who tend to be remembered.
Perhaps you might put your head in its mouth, sir- could be a corker.
Clever idea, I like it.
 I never thought I'd say this, but I'm glad you came.
 Understood- you realize now you could never have done it without me.
Actually, I could have done it much more easily without you, but for whatever reason, I'm glad you came. 
 Where do you go next?
Some Russian princes want to hunt the Himalayas. You?
Help finish the railroad.
I want to meet my son- he must be what, two months old?
Three years I've worked for the railroad. Now I don't know why. It seemed a good idea once.
I feel the same about the bridge. This country certainly didn't ask for it, doesn't need it.
Too soon to tell.
My life was shaped because someone invented gunpowder. Our lives have crossed because two lions went mad. But what if in the future the three of us do something grand for humanity? Was that worth all the lives? Too soon to tell.
 Some mysteries should not have solutions.
EMPTY_LINE
 He has children?
 Once... (HOLD on the two in the firelight. Then-)
I'd like to see John Patterson, please. 
Could you tell him that his wife-  -that his family has come to see him. 
You're positive lions hate baboons?  Pebbles?  Let's get it over with.
Where is it?
 Underneath.  Somewhere.
 Afraid of lions.
It's all right, Samuel- we all get hit- (Now he shuts up fast and-)
Samuel! (And he gestures for the rifle and the instant he does-)
Here we still wonder about them. How did they escape for nine months? And kill 135 men? And stop the railroad?  And were they only lions?  If you want to decide for yourself, you must go to America. They are at the Field Museum in Chicago, and even now, after they have been dead a century, if you dare to lock eyes with them...  ...you will be afraid.
Sleep well.
