I got you a few necessities...
Your copy was a mess...
Every one of these songs will remind you of me in a slightly different way...
All in one tape?
I also put side two of London Calling on there...
That was not officially the goodbye kiss. It was just an interim kiss...
This will be the final boarding call for Pan Am flight 4 to London, Heathrow.
You have your ticket?
Im not even gonna say it, Kate. Maybe itll be like I never left...
Wait.
I have a bad feeling about this.
About the plane? What do you think its gonna crash? Dont say that...
 I know weve talked about this a thousand times and we both agree that going to London is the right thing to do. But in my heart... this feels wrong.
Dont  go, Jack...
You mean dont go at all? What about my internship?
Believe me I know what an incredible opportunity this is for you...
For us, Kate.
Right, for us. But...Im afraid that if you get on that plane...
What?
 Go. Im sorry, you should just go...
 No, youre right.  What are we doing?
We're being responsible.  Go. Get on the plane.
 Get the hell outta my sight. You bother me.
 Okay, I'm going...
I can't seem to let go of you...
You hear me complaining about that?
Look, we're at the airport and no one ever thinks clearly at the airport so we should just trust the decision we already made.  You've been accepted to one of the best law schools in the country, I've got this internship at Barclay's Bank. We have a great plan, honey...
You want to do something great, Jack?  Let's flush the plan...start our lives right now, today...I don't know what that life's gonna look like but I do know it has both of us in it.  And I choose us...
The plan doesn't make us great, Jack.  What we have together, that's what makes us great.
I love you, Kate...
 ...and a year in London's not gonna change that.  A hundred years couldn't change that...
 I hope you don't mind.  There were like ten new ones in the cabinet.
It's not what you think.  I took Mentadent public...
Did you really mean what you said about Tuscany?
Of course I did.
Last night was great...
You are an amazing lover.  You should be giving motivational seminars.
Thanks.  You're not bad yourself...
I want to see you again.
I'd like that, too.
Tonight.
It's Christmas Eve, Jack.
So we'll get egg nog.
 I have to go to my parents' house out in Jersey.  Would you like to come?
Jersey?  You know what the traffic's gonna be like?
I'm taking the train...
Don't you have anywhere to go?
I've got plenty of places to go.
 Maybe I can try and sneak away some time tomorrow morning... (kissing him on the lips) Okay?
 If it's something you feel strongly about.
It was nice meeting you, Jack...
 Mrs. Peterson.
Hello Jack.  You dont have to stop singing on my account...
Its because Im shy, Betty.  So, when are you going to leave that old corpse Mr. Peterson and run away with me?
You know you could never satisfy me the way he does...
Howd you do this year, Tony?
Just until the Deutsche Mark turns...
...if MedTech's shares sink any lower than... (casually executing a keystroke) ...forty three, we're in trouble with the stock valuation.  So for god's sake watch what you say to your institutional customers...
...we still have almost a full day of trading before zero hour and I don't want any trouble...  ...penny for your thoughts, Alan...
Sorry, Jack.  I told Dee and the kids I'd be home by dinner.  You know, it being Christmas Eve and all.
Is that tonight?
You think I like being here on Christmas Eve, Alan?
I don't know.  Maybe...
Okay, maybe I do have a touch of tunnel vision this holiday season.  But in two days we're going to announce one of the largest mergers in U.S. corporate history.  Thirty billion dollars...  When this kind of deal turns up you get on and you ride it `till it's over.  You don't ask it for a vacation...
 December 26th.  After that there'll be so much money floating around here it'll be like Christmas every day...  December 26th, people.  If you'd like to celebrate that day, you all have my blessing...
You're right, Jack.  Sorry... Jack approaches Alan.
I don't want you to be sorry, Alan, I want you to be excited.  I want my gift to be the first one you open this year.  You know why?
Why Jack?
Because my gift comes with ten zeroes at the end...
Good man...
Only eight thirty?  What's the matter, had some last minute shopping to do?
You too?  This holiday's about giving, Adelle.  And I'm giving everything I've got to this deal, so in a way, I'm more Christmassy than anyone...  Lifesaver?
 You're a ray of sunshine, Jack.
Oh, and Oxxford called...
Ooh, my suits are ready...
Kate Reynolds...
Her assistant said you could call her at home after eight.
Her assistant?
Yeah Jack, her assistant...
 Kate Reynolds was my girlfriend in college.  I almost married her...
 You?  Married?
 Almost married.  And almost a junior broker at E.F. Hutton...
Excuse me?
She didn't want me to go to London.  We're standing at the airport saying goodbye and she asks me to stay.
So you left her?  Just like that?
God, no.  I thought about it for practically the entire flight...
Stop Jack, I'm getting all weepy.
I took the road less traveled, Adelle.
And look where it's led you...  I'm gonna get her on the phone...
No...
No?!  You almost married this woman.  Aren't you even curious what she wants?
She's probably just having a fit of nostalgia.  You know, lonely Christmas Eve, call the one that got away, that kind of thing.
I'm telling you, it's ancient history...
Eight forty-five on Christmas Eve and Jack Campbell is still at his desk.  There's a Hallmark moment for you...
Peter.  I don't see you rushing home to trim the tree.
 That's because I'm a heartless bastard who only cares about money.
And God love you for it.
 I just got a call from Terry Haight.  Bob Thomas is nervous...
That'll happen when you're about to spend thirty billion dollars on some aspirin...
Someone's gonna have to nurse him through this.
Why are you staring at my breasts, Peter?
I need you, tiger..
Where is he?
Aspen.
 Call Aunt Irma.  Tell her I won't be able to make it tomorrow...
You're a credit to capitalism, Jack.
Hey Peter, lemme ask you a question.  An old girlfriend calls you out of the blue on Christmas Eve...
You suddenly having trouble getting dates?
Not by a long shot.
Then leave it in the past. Old flames are like old tax returns.  You keep `em in the file cabinet for three years and then you cut `em loose.
 I'll leave from the office tomorrow afternoon.  Call the group.  Schedule an emergency strategy session for noon.
That'll be a nice little holiday treat.
Mr. Campbell.  Why didn't you call down, I would've had Joe get your ride.
I'm thinking I might walk tonight, Frank.
Nice night for it.  I'll have Louis send your car home.
Merry Christmas to you, sir...
Thanks.  To you too...
Oh yeah...yeah, yee-ah!  She's a certified winner...paper- thin but good as gold...
Egg nog?
 Dairy case.  Five dollar.
 Y'all do the lotto here...? `Cause I got me a winner...I know, I know, Lotto keeps the black man down... but not me...
...06...14...18...48...right there.  Four numbers...that's two hundred and thirty eight dollar...  Merry Christmas and shit...
 Ticket bad.  You draw in lines with pencil.
What're you talkin' about?
 You draw lines with pencil!  I know about this!
What!?  Look at the ticket...!
Get out, I call 911.
You're lookin' at me, you're not even lookin' at the ticket!
You leave now.  Take ticket somewhere else.  Next customer in line...!
You first generation, xenophobic, money-theistic, hot pastrami sandwich making...
 Get out!
LOOK AT THE GODDAMN TICKET!!
 Let me see that ticket.
 Was I talkin' to you?!
Maybe I'll buy it from you.
Guy in $2,000 suit gets ass kicked tryin' to be a hero. Film at eleven... (then...turning to the coffee machine) What?!  Oh no, not another lookie-loo.  You know how big a job this is?
You're double bookin' me! You're gonna get double billed!  Shit!
Hey, c'mon...
 Do you want to die?
DO YOU WANNA DIE?!
No.
 Yes you do...
Look, I'm talking about a business deal here.  I buy the ticket for two hundred, take it to a store where the guy behind the counter...  ...doesn't have a death wish  ...I just made myself a quick thirty eight dollars.
Like I said, it's a business deal...
Damn, you are the real thing...
C'mon, Jack, let's get outta here...  You were lookin' at me, papa, you shoulda been lookin' at the ticket.  That ticket was legit, B.  You're fake...
How'd you know my name was Jack?
I call all you white guys "Jack."
You know you seem pretty relaxed for a guy who just had a gun pulled on him.
There's no way I was gonna die in that deli...  Let's just say I've been on a lucky streak lately.
 A lucky streak, huh?
Sound pretty sure of yourself, don't you?
So you're telling me, you've got a gun to your head and you don't think for one second, what if this, what if that, maybe I shouldn't do this, I shoulda done that.
I don't do that.  That's just not for me...
Okay, Jack.  Nice doing business with you... Cash is about to take off...
Hey...
What do you want to carry that gun around for, anyway? You're just gonna do something you'll regret...
You want to talk about regrets, you're talking to the wrong person.
I'm just saying that you seem like a smart guy.  At a certain point you're gonna do something, and then there's no turning back...
Yeah, in most cases that'd be true.
I mean there must be programs out there, opportunities...
 Wait a minute, wait a minute... you're tryin' to save me?
Oh man, you're serious...  This man thinks I need to be saved!
Everyone needs something.
Yeah?  What do you need?
Me?
You just said everyone needs something.
I've got everything I need.
Wow.  It must be great being you.  You got it all.
Look, I'm not saying you'd be able to do it without some hard work...
 You still think this is about me, don't you?
Sure it's about you.  But it's about society, too.
Oh man, I'm gonna enjoy this one... Just remember, Jack, you did this.  You brought this on yourself...
Mmmm...ten more minutes, Jack... its Christmas...
Jingle bells, Santa s mells, Rudolph laid an egg...la la la, la-la la la, la la la la la...
You too, Luce...
Rise...and...shine...!
 Youre jumping, sweetheart...
Mom, dont you think we need to open the presents?
 Mommy needs five more minutes in la la land. That could be her present...
Cmon, Dad.  Get up!
Jack...?
 Strong coffee, okay?
 Use an entire can if you have to!
 Ed?  Lorraine?
Jack you ol bird dog. Merry Christmas to ya...
Talk to him, Jack. Please.  One day a year away from the Ponderosa. I dont think thats too much to ask.
I heard that.  This is who I am, woman!  Tell her, Jack!  Youre the only one who gets me, for gods sake!
I need some egg nog...
Course you do.  Hell, its almost 8 a.m.  Where are my two lil pardners?  Annie!  Josh! Giddy up, Bid Eds here!
Excuse me.
Where are you going, Jack?  Wheres he going?
Damned if I know...
Wheres my car?!  Wheres my Ferrari!?
What the hell are you talking about?  Whats he talking about?
Look, can I just borrow your car?!  I promise itll be returned!
The Caddy?  Why dont you take your own damn car!
Oh just let him borrow your precious Cadillac, for gods sake.
Hes got a perfectly good mini-van sitting out there in the driveway!
Tony, thank god...
What are you talking about?  Its me, Jack Campbell.  Penthouse C. I put you into commercial paper!
Elizabeth Peterson!
 Who is this man?
You know me, Betty.  You do.  Jack Campbell. Were on the co-op board together.  We fought side by side for garbage disposals.  Every morning we exchange quasi-sexual witty banter.  Think...
 No...
 Thank you, Betty.  I know if I can just sleep this off, Ill be fine...
And sleep you shall. Noblesse oblige is not dead.  Not yet anyway...Come, lets get you some help.  Surely there must be a shelter somewhere in this city.
A shelter?!  Im the richest guy in the building...Ive got twice the square footage you have!
Whoa, whoa, whoa...hold it right there...
Frank.  Wheres Alan Mintz?  Is he here yet?
Mr. Mintz?  I dont think so...buildings closed pal.  Youll have to come back tomorrow.
Look, I dont know whats going on here but I am Senior Vice President of this company.
I dont care who you are.  Its Christmas and like I told you the building is closed.
Maybe youre not hearing me.  I am Jack Campbell... (approaching the building directory) Right here.  Jack Campbell, President...
Hey!  Watch where youre walking!
You almost dented my two hundred thousand dollar car!
Thats right!  My new cars worth more than your shitty house!
I feel like I really did win the lottery!
Miss me, Jack?
Thats my car!  You stole my car!
Its a callable asset seized in accordance with the acquisition by-laws of your alt-fate contract...
What?!
Basically, its my car now.  Get in.
Look, I dont make the rules, Jack.  This is how it works.  Get in.
Might wanna fasten your seat belt, Jack...
 What the hell is happening to me?!
This kinda thing makes a lotta guys throw up. Seen it happen.  So if you get the urge, do it out the window. (with a taunting laugh) I dont want you marring this exquisite leather interior...
Look, I dont know what youre getting so worked up about, you did this...you brought this on yourself.
Brought what on myself?! I didnt do anything!
No?  Cmon, Jack...Ive got everything I need, I dont have regrets, thats just not for me... sound familiar?
You mean because you thought I was cocky Im now on a permanent acid trip?!!
Everyone else in that store is a statue, they see their lives passing in front of their eyes, but not you.  Youre making a business deal...
 Give me my goddamn life back!
You?  What about me?  Im working hard for you here, Jack.  On Christmas too!  Now you did a good thing last night, intervening that way.  I was moved...
 Please.  Just tell me whats happening to me. In plain English.  None of that mumbo jumbo...
Its a glimpse, Jacko.
I glimpse?  A glimpse of what!?  What glimpse?! Glimpse!
Look, eventually, everybody gets one...some of em take a couple seconds...  ...some of em take a lot longer...
I asked you a direct question!  A glimpse of what?!
Figure it out.  You got plenty of time.
How much time?!
As long as it takes to figure it out.  Which, in your case, could be considerable.
Look, I just want my life back.  Now whats it gonna take?  You wanna talk turkey?  Lets talk turkey!  How much money...?
Do I look like I need your money.  It doesnt work like that and I cant tell you why.
Why not?
Because you got to figure it out for yourself.  Are you listening to me?
Figure it out?  Figure what out?!
Thats it?  Thats all I get?!  A glare?!
Look Jack, in my experience the best way people deal with this is to just relax and breathe through it...let it come to you.
Look, I dont have time for this right now.  Im in the middle of a deal... CASH Oh youre working on a new deal now...did I mention that?
You know what?  Ive had it with you.  Ive had it with all of this shit...
Here...
Whats this, a signal? Will you come whenever I ring it?
Do I look like I live in a bottle?
 But what do I do?
Look Jack Im late.  Id love to help you out some more but I gotta go handle my business... (gesturing to the mini-van) Happy trails.
Hey, you did this to me, you cant just leave me like this.
Fine.  You want to know everything, Ill tell you everything.  But not here.  Lets get some air...
 Thanks, man...
Excuse me.  Do you know where Merrison Street is?
 Jeannie!  I found Jack!
You look terrible...
Truth is I expected you. Kate called before and asked if I knew where you were.
I know, I moved the Barca-lounger into the corner.  Its throwin everybody off.  What do you think?
 Great room...
You and me, buddy.  We know how to live...
So Jack, you okay?
I mean you leave the house on Christmas morning, you dont tell anyone where youre going...
Were friends, arent we?
Maybe I dont say it enough but you moving in next door to me...
Talk to me...
Im having kind of a bad day.
 I read somewhere that the suicide rate doubles during the holidays...
 What am I saying?  You dont need to hear that...  All I meant was a lot of people have a hard time dealing with all the forced reverie, thats all.  Is that you?
Is it...?
Trouble at work?
I dont think so.
Its not Kate, is it?
 You see, its like were in each others heads...
Kates my wife...
 Just keep saying it, Jack, like a mantra.
Cmon, I better walk ya home.  Shes mad enough as it is, right...?
Look, you fit the profile exactly.  Thirties, house, kids, financial responsibilities.  You start thinking...this isnt the life I dreamt about.  Wheres the romance, wheres the joie de vivre?  Suddenly, every lingerie ad in the Newark Star Ledger represents a life you cant have...
 Its just two kids, right?
You made a choice, Jack, a promise to your wife. Maybe sometimes it seems like you gave up the world, but look what you got...
Four bedrooms, two and a half baths, and a partially finished basement...
 Kids...
Okay look, you probably dont want to hear this right now but remember what you told me last summer when I almost had that thing with Arnie Jr.s speech therapist.
Dont screw up the best thing in your life just because youre a little unsure about who you are.  Okay?
God, it feels so good to finally give something back to you...
Im gonna hug you now...
 Hold on a second...
You cut your hair...
Ten years ago...
Are you okay?
Yeah...fine.
 Never mind, he just walked in...
Do you have any idea what you put us through today?!  You walk out of here at 7:30 in the morning, dont tell me where youre going, or even that youre going, and I dont see you til hours later.  I had state troopers looking for you!  I called hospitals... (pointing at the phone) ...I was just on the phone with the morgue for gods sake!
What kind of man leaves his family on Christmas morning without a word about where hes going?
What kind of man does that!?
 I dont know!  Please stop yelling at me!
Where were you?
I was in the city.
The city?  New York City?  Why?
Because thats where I live.
Jack...dont even start...
Look, you dont understand.  I woke up here...and this is very strange ...this is not my house...
 Im not Dad....  Kate, youre not my wife...
You know what, Jack? Its not funny this time.  Im really angry.
 Jack!
 Whats that?
 I like this... (jumping up and giving hima peck on the cheek) ...thanks, Dad!
You missed the whole thing, Jack.  The pancakes, the presents...you spent six hours putting that bike together and you didnt even get to see the look on Annies face when she opened it...
You missed Christmas, Jack.
Im...Im sorry.
Look, we dont have time for this right now, well talk about it later.  Now get dressed... (pointing to his outfit) Youre not wearing that to the Thompsons party. I dont care how hilarious you think it is...
Party?  Oh no, I cant go to a party...
You look forward to this party all year.  Whats with you today?
Trust me on this Kate.  I really dont think going to a party is the right move for me at the present time.
Fine.  Do whatever you want.
What are you doing?
Telling my mother she doesnt have to stay with the kids.
Why not?
Because youll be here.
Ill be ready in ten minutes.
Christ...  Where the hell is the bathroom?
Funny, Jack.  Im laughing on the inside.
This is just... (searching for the words) ...this is sub-par...
Kate!  Jack! (turning around, to guests) Everybody, Jack and Kate are here!
 Like the dress...?
 Its lovely...
 I thought I saw you notice it at the kids recital.
Did you see Van Horn last night?  This kids gonna single-handedly save basketball in the state of New Jersey...
The Nets?  Youre kidding, right...?
 Well...theyre certainly due.
So tomorrows the big day, Jackie...
Okay...why?
Triple bypass.  Im going under the knife.  I told you, didnt I?
Triple bypass? (pointing to his plate) You really think you should be eating all that?
Why not?  I figure Im going in for a cleaning tomorrow, I might as well load up on the fried stuff tonight...
Good thinking, Bill. Have another drink.  Hell be lucky if he lives through the night...
 Finger food...?
I dont think so, thank you...
 Cmon, as soon as I put them down, youre gonna grab a couple...you always do...
Let me.  Theyll melt in your mouth...
Good?
 Theyre great!  Thank you!
Mushroom puffs arent the only thing I do well...
Well do whatever it is you do well, and just...just do it. Excuse me...
 ...what do you mean he wont come to the phone?!  Do you realize how much money Ive made for that sonuvabitch in the last eight years?!
Damnit!
Jack...?
Are you sure youre okay...?
Yes, Im fine.  Its just this god awful football phone!  Who has a phone like this anyway?!
 Uh huh...
You must really love Evelyns mushroom puffs, huh?  You know theyre not real...
 ...then she asks me to put this sweater on. What choice do I have, right?
But as Im slipping it on I notice shes misspelled the word lawyers.  I had to go through the entire day wearing a hand embroidered sweater that said, Non-Profit Layers Do It For Free.
 So youre a lawyer...?
A non-profit lawyer...
 Jack...
Pro bono.  You dont get paid at all.  Nobody makes a dime.  Well, bravo...
I better go wake my mother...
Here you go...
Youre kidding me...
Shes your dog, Jack.
No, shes not.
Fine, shes the kids dog.  Lets go wake Josh, see if he wants to walk her.
But its twenty degrees outside...
 Youre having a bad day, Ill go with you...actually, theres no way in hell youre gettin me back out there...
 Make sure you reward her verbally when she does a number two...
Figure it out...Im s crewed...dont have to be a genius to figure that out...
 Its as good a place as any...
...but obviously not up to your high standards...  Okay...he said youre working on a new deal now...fine, youve done a thousand deals, whats the first thing you do?
Triage.  Its your signature.  You survey the damage, find out everything you can, you probe, leave nothing to chance.  Im just gonna have to go detective. How did you get Mentadent?  You learned everything there was to know about toothpaste and then you pounced...
Thats our play here...
If you could take a dump some time in this century, then we could go home where its warm...
That is if I can even remember how to get home...  You remember, dont you girl?
Hello?
 Hello!
 ...my feet are hurtin...
 HEY!
Uh...that babys crying...
 And...?
Dont give me that look, Jack, Tuesdays your day and you know it.  And try to get Josh to day care on time, okay?  He missed the macaroni painting last week...
Pull tape...
Holy mother of god!
You must be kidding...
Youre not really our dad, are you?
No, Im not.
I work on Wall Street, you know with the big buildings...?
I live in an apartment house with a doorman, I can buy just about anything I want...
This isnt my real life. Its just a glimpse...
Wheres my real dad?
I dont know...
But dont worry, he loves you and Im sure hell be back very soon...  ...very, very soon...
They did a pretty good job.
Who did?
The aliens...In the mother ship.  You look just like him.
Uhh...thanks...slightly better looking though, right?
Youre not going to start crying, are you?  Because Im not really sure I could deal with that right now.
Do you like kids?
On a case by case basis...
You know how to make chocolate milk?
I think I could figure it out.
You promise not to kidnap me and my brother and implant stuff in our brains?
Sure.
Welcome to earth.
Stop here...
This is day care.  Its where babies go when their parents are at work.
Check...
Do I get a receipt or something...?
I have winter camp until four, then ballet until five thirty.
Five thirty.  Okay.
Try not to be late because kids dont like to be the last one picked up.
Got it.  Good tip.
Bye...
 Hey!  Annie!
Where do I go now?
Big Eds.
Big Eds?  Big Eds Tires?  Why...?
Thats where you work.
You mean I sell tires...
Thats what I do.  Im a tire salesman...
Good Lord...
Hey Jack, you happen to know the stock number on those new Michelin X1's?
Uh...lemme get back to you on that one... (looking at his name tag) Tommy...
 Thomas, why you bother Jack about that.  Look it up yourself...  Okay Jack, we talk later...
Jack my boy!  You are looking mighty worse for the wear...Hey, guess who I played bridge with two nights ago...?
Hell, youll never guess.  One Sydney Potter.  Thats Sydney Potter, Chief Executive Officer of BuyRite Transport.  Only the third largest trucking company in the state.  I even let the sonuvabitch win, which wasnt easy because the guys been bashed in the head by Teamsters so many times his brains like porridge.  Anyhoo, hes looking for a new parts supplier... we can handle that kind of volume, right?
Im gonna have to get back to you on that...Ed.
Do I have a private office somewhere in the building?
Uh...sure Jack...  Right back there...
Thank you.
Bowlers do it in an alley?...Non profit lawyers do it for free... what is it with these people?  Dont they realize this refers to sex?
At least you splurged on some decent scotch...
 What are you smiling about...?
Number one...not bad.
 You never went to London...  ...you never got on that plane...
 Jack to mag wheels...Jack, youre needed in mag wheels, customer waiting!
...I was the number one junior sales associate at E.F. Hutton in 1988.  Did you know that?
No, I didnt...thats great.
Thats the kind of thing you can really build on...
Uh huh...
I mean sales has always been a feeder for M and A, always...
Here we are, mag wheels...  Hey Jack, are you sure youre okay?
Well, Im just a little confused right now about why I work here...
Uh...I just started here last Tuesday.
 So youre all set on the Skip Shift eliminator and the Brembo rotors. Jacks our point man on alloy wheels...
 Do you know why do I work here...?
Because youre the best damn tire guy in the state of New Jersey... (proudly, to the customer) Jack taught me everything I know about the business...
I taught you the business?
And hes a crack-up.
Everything I taught you. I want to hear it all, right now.
Hey, Im ready to buy here...
 What do you want?
I want some alloy wheels.
Here.  These are great. Youll need four.
But I dont like these...
Hey, you heard the guy, Im the best damn tire guy in the state of New Jersey.  Everything.
Okay...  Rule number one, the customer is always right...
 ...I have no idea what our inventory level is, thats why Im asking you...
Look, just send us what you sent us last month, okay...?  And keep doing that until further notice...
Got a minute, Jack?
Ive got all the time in the world...
Jack, meet Sydney Potter, BuyRite Transport, one of Jerseys top businessmen...
...and a helluva bridge player.  Eds told me a lot about you...
 Lucky in cards, lucky in business, lucky in love. My cup runneth over...  Hes a nice looking boy...
My daughters no slouch either...
Lets cut to the chase, Jack.  Big Ed tells me youre the grease that makes the wheels turn around here.  I need a new parts supplier for my fleet.  You seem to have the parts.  That we know.  What we dont know is why the hell I should buy them from you.
I have no idea...
 Cmon Jack...
 I mean it.  From what I can tell, were a mom and pop operation, were already over-extended in sales, and any price advantage we could offer would easily be matched by a larger supplier...
So like I said, I dont have any idea why you should buy your parts from us...
Okay, you got my attention...
Except for rule number one...
The customer is always right.  A clich?  Sure. The difference is, we mean it.  Were small, we need our customers.  We cant afford to disappoint them, ever. Yeah, you could go to some leviathan supplier, probably save a few pennies on the price of oil filters, but with us you get more than a supplier, you get a bridge partner...
You want to bid hearts, were right there with you.  You feel the need to redouble, youre not going to get any argument from us...
The big guys may have the high cards, but you know as well as I do, Sydney, high cards dont always take the trick.
 I like him...
 Thats my boy...  Cmon, lemme show you the rest of the ranch...
 Nice shootin, Jack...
...advancers led decliners by a nine to four ratio and the closing tick was a mildly bullish plus seventy six.  Much of the markets action today was fueled by the latest round of merger mania to hit Wall Street...
...when Global Health Systems and MedTech Pharmaceutical announced their intentions to join forces in a massive one hundred and twenty two billion dollar stock swap deal.  Though neither side expressed significant regulatory concerns at the announcement press conference, it is believed that both the FDA and the FTC will be closely scrutinizing the marriage, the largest ever in the health care industry.  When asked about possible anti- competitive implications, Global Chairman Bob Thomas referred reporters to P.K. Lassiter and Company President Alan Mintz, the original architect behind the deal...
Ironically, Mintz first met Thomas at a Lamaze class...
A Lamaze class...!?
...while coaching their pregnant wives, Mintz and T homas struck up a dialogue about the need for consolidation in the rapidly growing health care industry and two months later, the deal with MedTech was born...
What?!  Thats my deal?
In other business news, U.S. Labor Department officials announced today that two hundred and seventy-five thousand new jobs were created last month, twenty-five thousand less than economists were predicting, leading to a mild rally in the bond markets before midday. But as the trading session drew to a close, the profit takers stepped in and the long bond closed at ninety seven even, up only two ticks, the yield inching down to six point zero seven percent...
The kids are asleep...
Jack.  I said the kids are asleep...
 Well thats just great...those little monkeys can be a real handful...
Hey!  I was watching that!
I thought we had a deal about you watching CNBC in bed.
Im working on a new deal now...
Fine, but not tonight...
Wait a second.  You want me, dont you?
That is the general idea, yes...
Shouldnt we grab some dinner first?  Maybe a bottle of wine...?
Its ten thirty, Jack. By eleven youre gonna be sprawled out on the bed snoring your head off. We dont have time for wining and dining.
Whatever you say...honey.
God...youre beautiful...
Thanks, Jack...
No, Im serious...youre really stunning...
This is good stuff, Jack, keep it coming...
I mean back in college, you were a very pretty girl, theres no question about that.  But this...  ...youve really grown into a beautiful woman...
How can you do that?
 Do what?
Look at me like you havent seen me every day for the last twelve years...
Dont move.
night, honey...
 Were almost done here...
Mary Janes, Mom.  You promised.
Thats right.  Okay, lets make a quick stop at the kids shoe department, pick up my watch from the battery place, then Ill run into the linen store...
Why dont we just go to all the stores?!
Every single store in this godforsaken shopping mall.  We can go to them all.
You know what, Jack?! Ill go with the kids. Why dont you just hang out here in the mens department... okay?
Its perfect for your frame...
Would you like to try it on?
You look amazing in that suit...
KATE I mean...wow...off the charts great.
Its an unbelievable thing.  Wearing this suit actually makes me feel like a better person. (taking one final look) Im gonna buy it...
$2,400?!  Are you out of your mind?
 She got those shoes...
Those shoes were twenty five dollars.  Cmon, take it off.  Well go to the food court and get one of those funnel cakes you like.
No.
No?
Do you have any idea what my life is like?
Excuse me?
I wake up in the morning covered in dog saliva...I drop the kids off, spend eight hours selling tires retail...retail, Kate.
I pick up the kids, walk the dog, which by the way, carries the added bonus of carting away her monstrous crap...I play with the kids, take out the garbage, get six hours of sleep if Im lucky, and then it starts all over again...and why is it that I always have to drive everyone everywhere?  I spend practically my entire day in that slow as hell mini-van listening to Raffi tapes and trying to figure out how the cup holders work...Im sick of it.
Really.
Whats in it for me? Where are my Mary Janes?
Its sad to hear your life is such a disappointment to you, Jack.
I cant believe its not a disappointment to you!  Jesus, Kate, I couldve been a thousand times the man I became.  How could you do this to me?  How could you let me give up on my dreams like this?!
Who are you?
 Look, Im sorry.  Im sorry I was such a saint before and Im such a prick now.  Maybe Im just not the same guy I was when we got married...
Maybe youre not.  The Jack Campbell I married wouldnt need a $2400 suit to make himself feel better about his life, but if thats what its gonna take, then buy it. Just buy the goddamn suit ...we can take the money out of the kids college fund.
Forget it... (taking off the jacket) Well get a funnel cake. Itll be the highlight of my week...
 Listen, Im sorry about that back in the store. I really dont want to fight with you...
But you must sometimes wonder how we ended up here.  I mean back in college, did you see us...  ...here...?
Ill give you this, life has thrown us a few surprises...
It really has, hasnt it?  So if you had to...what would you say was the biggest surprise?
Well...Annie for one.
Surprise.  Were pregnant...  Yeah...that mustve been...I mean that was very unexpected.  But what are you gonna do, right?
I think it worked out okay, dont you?
Sure.  I really like Annie.
Good, Jack.  Maybe well keep her.
No, I love Annie.  We had a lot of good times, didnt we?
We were young...  Remember that little place on Charles Street we used to go to?
Charles Street?  In the Village?  When we were living in Greenwich Village...?  Great times.  Whyd we ever leave?
You cant really raise a kid in an apartment in the Village...
The trek out to the hospital every day didnt help either...  You were great. Surviving the heart attack was one thing...
You had a heart attack?
 Jack, stop that. I'm still mad at you...  ...who knows what wouldve happened if you hadnt stepped in at the store.
Thats why I work for Big Ed?
 I mean, thats why I work for Big Ed...
 So we had a baby, Big Ed had a heart attack, we b ought that house, and Ive been working for him ever since...Sayonara, Wall Street.
 Our life in a nutshell...
If you want to look at it that way...
How would you look at it?
A great success story...
Damn...
 Jesus, Jack, this is a league match, for gods sake!
Wheres your follow through?  Wheres your stance?
Hey, Im doing the best I can...  Id like to see you hit a squash ball after seventeen beers...
Youre right.  Why am I so competitive!? Compensation, I guess. Look, just focus, Jack. You can still pick up the spare...
 You are Jack Campbell. Youre better than this sport.  You shot the rapids at Kenai.  You ran with the bulls at Pamplona.  You jumped out of a plane over the Mojave Desert, for Christs sake.  You can do this...
 Yeah!!
 Okay, Pete, youre up.
Hi Jack...
Evelyn, right?
Very funny.  I saw you out there on lane five. What do you have the flu or something?
Something like that.
 Need a nurse?
Youre a nurse?
If thats what you want...
Wait a second...
Are we...?
Are we what, Jack?
Is there something going on between us?
Are we finally being honest?
It would help me if we were.
Okay, youre right, weve been dancing around this for years...
God, my heart is racing. Here goes...  When I get dressed for a party and I know youre going to be there... well, lets just say I dont go strapless because my husband likes it...
Ive got six sets of snow tires piled up in my garage and I wont even drive in the snow...And our kids just happen to be in the same ballet class every year?
So, if youre asking me whether Id like it to be more, the answer is yes...
...and Kate would never have to know.
Do I have your number?
Steves out of town with the kids this week.  Why dont you just stop by...
 Hey Jack, youre all flush.  I guess that seventy-one took a lot outta you.
 I just saw Evelyn Thompson.
She is relentless.
She wants to have an affair with me.
She said that?
Pretty much.
Oh yeah...  What is it about you?
 So could you write down her exact address?
Whoa...whoa...wait a second, Jack.  Youre not actually gonna cheat on Kate?
It wouldnt really be cheating... (off Arnies doubtful  look) Its complicated.
Look, maybe Im not as good a consigliere as you are but you have to trust me on this one.  A little flirtations harmless but youre playing with fire here.  The Fidelity Bank and Trust is a tough creditor.  You make a deposit somewhere else, they close your account forever.
Im telling you, those rules dont apply to me, Arn.
 Screw the rules.  Im talking about the choice.
Cmon, Evelyn Thompsons got no class.  She doesnt marry Dr. Steve, the womans living in a trailer.
Hey, is that really necessary?
All Im saying it there isnt a guy in Union County who wouldnt give his left nut to be married to Kate...
Ill see ya later, Jack...
 How was the game, honey?
 Long, boring, and generally pretty sad. Arnie seemed to enjoy it...  Hey, wheres that chocolate cake...?
 You mean this chocolate cake?
Thats my piece.  I was saving it because I got nauseated from that store bought chicken.
Its good...
Gimme that cake.
No way.
Cmon.
Sorry, Jack.  Its too important to me.
I want that cake!
 You want the cake!?
 I want it...
Thank you...
Its good, right?
Are the kids asleep?
 Say it, Jack...
What...?
Cmon, you know what I like to hear...
 Yeah, baby, I know what you like to hear...
 Then say it...just say it to me...!
 Oh yeah, youre a bad girl, baby... You make me so hot...Im gonna take you to that special place...
What...?
Not it...?
Nice, Jack.  Youre sweeping me off my feet.
What? You make me hot...
Cmon, Lucy, maybe one of us can get a little relief tonight...
 Cmon, girl, lets go home...
Jesus, Bill, this thing is an antique.  Dont you even have image stabilization?
Four hundred bucks at Best Buy, Arn.
And everyone knows image stabilization is for the weak...
So Jack, its your wifes birthday, got anything to say to her?
 Its your birthday? Today?  Whats your name?  Where were you born?
Jack.
Wait a minute.  Youre my wife?
I do have one thing I wanna say...
 Oh those fingers in my hair, that sly come hither stare, strips my conscience bare, its witchcraft...
...and Ive got no defense for it, that heat is too intense for it, what good would common sense for it do...
...Cause its witchcraft, wicked witchcraft...and although I know its strictly taboo...when you rouse the need in me, my heart says yes indeed in me, proceed with what youre leadin me to...
Its such an ancient pitch, but one that Id never switch, there aint no nicer witch than you...
Cause its witchcraft, that koo koo witchcraft...and although I know its strictly taboo...
...when you rouse the need in me, my heart says yes indeed to me, proceed with what youre leadin me to...
Its such an ancient pitch, but one that Id never switch...
Cause theres no nicer witch than you...
...than you...
...than you...
 Happy Birthday sweetheart...I love you.
 Time to get up, honey...
Happy Anniversary, honey...
 Before you do whatever crazy stunt youve got planned I want you to open mine...
Maybe I should wait...
No, open it...
I found it at an outlet store.  I know its a knock-off, but I think itll look great on you...
 Zeena...
 You really are incredible...
Enjoy it, sweetheart...
Youre probably expecting something from me...
Heres the thing.  I really hadnt planned on giving you your...uh... anniversary gift until tonight. (an uncomfortable smile) You know, anniversarys good all day...
What are you talking about?  You never wait all day.  You can barely wait until its light out.
I know that, but...
You forgot.
You actually forgot our anniversary.
Ill fix it.  Ill go out right now and get you something.  Ill make it right.
 Jesus, Jack...Is this where we are now?  Is this our marriage? Suddenly Im the wife who has to drop hints two weeks before her anniversary so her husband doesnt fuck it up?
Please dont cry...
 I dont want to be that, Jack...
Cmon...cmon...
 Cmon, goddamnit, how was I supposed to know the date of their anniversary!?  I never married her!
 Put the bicycle back on the ground...
Not bad...I shoulda warned you.  Dad always does something really special for their anniversary.
Like what?
One year he had a solar system named after her...
Dont you think thats a little gimmicky?
Mom liked it.
Maybe theres a jewelry store back at the mall. I could get her a pair of earrings or something.
Thats good but...you did forget the anniversary.
Right.  Thats a major oversight...  So if Im Kate...I cant really afford the finer things, my husbands career is a crushing disappointment to me, Im trapped in suburbia...
Did he ever take her to the City?
Youre really gettin the hang of this.
Which do you think?
The black one...
Fightings a part of it, Annie.  You know that, right?
Im not worried, Mom. Hes still learning our ways...
Cmere.
 Really?
Now go like this...
Youre gonna break a lot of hearts, you know.
You look beautiful...
 Thanks, Catherine...
You okay?
Fine...
 Jack...can we afford all this?
Whats the difference? Im taking my baby out for our anniversary, damn the costs...
How do you even know about this place?
Arnie...  Arnie.  Hell throw you a curve ball once in a while, thats for sure...
Well have the tureen of quail breast with shiitake mushrooms to start, then the veal medallions in raspberry truffle sauce and the sea scallops with pureed artichoke hearts...sea scallops, North of the Caspian...
Very good, sir.  And may I say those are all excellent selections.
You may... (perusing the wine list) Also, well have a bottle of Lafite, 1982.
Its five hundred and fifty dollars, Jack!
Just a glass of red wine for each of us...
You are so not off the hook yet, slick.
But Im gettin close, right?
You want to dance?
I dont think theres dancing here, Jack.
Sure there is...
 Pretty good for a tire salesman from Jersey...
I have my moments...
Mmmm...  ...here, try one of these...
 God I missed that taste...
Why are you laughing?
I need to tell you something.
Okay...
I think it may help us but theres a slight chance it could make things worse.
Now Im worried...just say it.  Whatever it is well deal with it.
Are you sure?
I feel like Im living someone elses life...
I used to be so sure about everything, you know?  I knew exactly who I was and what I wanted. Then one morning I woke up and suddenly it was all different...
Worse, you mean...
No.  Well, maybe a few things.  But mostly just different...
I never used to be like this, Kate.  I had it all figured out.  No doubts, no regrets.
And now...?
Now...I dont...
Me neither.
I think its good to be a little unsure about who you are.  Its very human.
But you always seem so certain.
Cmon, Jack, you think there arent mornings when I wake up and wonder what the hell Im doing in New Jersey...
Thats a big one for me, too.
My office is a dump, I answer my own phone...and youve seen my pay check.
Your pay check is a disgrace to pay checks.
I mean yes, I help people that need it...
I guess...some of them are probably faking.
 God, sometimes I think it would be so nice not to have to stretch ground beef or maybe drive a car with a CD player...
Imagine having a life where everything was easy...where you asked for things and people just brought them to you...
Its wonderful...
I think about it, too, Jack.  I do.  I think about the kind of person Id be if I hadnt married you...
And...?
And I realize Ive just erased the things in my life Im most sure about.  You, the kids...
Good things...
What are you sure about?
Im sure that right now theres nowhere Id rather be than here with you...
This is so beautiful...
You know champagne makes me do crazy things.
 Ill just full yours up to the top. (handing her a glass) Happy anniversary, sweetheart.
I dont know how you did it, hoss, but you pulled it off.
Im out of the doghouse?
Way out...
 You may even get lucky tonight...
Youre so...beautiful...
I already told you you were gonna get lucky, Jack...
My god, all this time...I never stopped loving you...
 Thats all I wanted to hear...
Mmmm...Jack...
I feel like I should give you money...
I mean, my god, Jack you were always good but this...this was... like a porno movie.
I could stay here forever...
I dont think Id fight you on that one...
Have a good day...
For the money, theyre hands down the best radial we carry...
 Okay, Ill take them...
You wont regret it...  Tommy!  Set Mr. Conlin up with four B.F. Goodrich G-Force T/As... (looking the man over) ...and give him ten percent off for having the best costume...
 Jack, Kate on line two! Jack pick up two!
 Kates on two, Jack.  Nice ride...
 If youre into that kind of conspicuous consumption...
You want me to handle him?  I think Im ready...
 Jack!  Kate still holding on line two...
Sure...be careful, he looks like a tough negotiator...
 Tell Kate Ill call her back...
 It sounded pretty important.
 Im with a customer. Ill call her back.
 I seem to have had some kind of blow out...
Why dont you let me take this one, Kenny?
Okay, chief.
Peter Lassiter...
 Do I know you?
Not exactly. Ive seen you on CNBC.  You look taller in real life...
...truth is, Mintz was so busy timing his wifes breathing he didnt see that MedTech needed Global more than the other way around.  Ten days, two weeks tops, they wouldve approached you with an offer, and Id bet anything it wouldve been thirty billion, not twenty nine...  Problem was, Peter, you had a pussycat running the show. What you needed was a rottweiler.
 Well, Im impressed.
I really am...
So, about my car...
Sure. Were going to have to special order that tire. Itll be ready in about two days.
This has my office address on it...  Why dont you drop it off yourself?
...I say to her, Margarita, we already have four kids, why do we need more?
But she say she want an even number. I say four is an even number! But she say she want six.
I tell her, Margarita, I just got my green card, I like to sit back and rest a little bit...
 Hector...do I usually listen to your personal problems?
Sure, Jack, all the time...
Look, I have some business that I have to take care of in the city so Im leaving early...  My advice to you...follow your dreams.
...were really more of a boutique operation, as you can see...
But youre not interested in boutique dollars...  I get it...
 Hes expecting you, Mr. Lassiter...
 Alan, this is Jack Campbell...the one I was telling you about...
Jack, of course.
 Mr. Mintz.
Please, call me Alan. We try to cultivate a casual atmosphere around here...
 I can see that, Alan.
You have kids, Jack?
 Uh...actually, yes. Two... good ones.
Thats great... (gesturing to the sofa) Why dont you have a seat?
So, Peter mentioned that you were an avid CNBC watcher but didnt say whether you had any actual Wall Street experience?
I was a sales associate, at E.F. Hutton.
A broker? Really. And now youre in the tire business?
Thats right. And auto supply...
Uh huh. The retail end, I understand.
Uh...we actually get about sixty percent of our business from automotive service.
Mind if I ask what kind of sales you did last year? Ballpark...
We did one point seven million in total revenue...
Uh huh...one point seven. And what do you project for this year?
Any thoughts at all on that?
Jack?
Well, Alan, I think were gonna have a banner year. Sales are up almost twenty percent in the first quarter and we just landed a major trucking company account.
Really. So youre projecting what, a tad over two million?
Thats right. And that would make us number one in our market...  You mind if I stand?
Look, I know our paltry little two million in sales is about what you spend on office supplies in a year.  And I know some regional trucking company account is nothing compared to a sixty billion dollar merger...
Im not trying to knock the tire business, Jack.
 Its okay, Alan. I get it. Im in your shoes, Im thinking exactly the same thing...but heres the thing. Business is business.  Wall Street, Main Street, its all just a bunch of people getting up in the morning, trying to figure out how the hell theyre gonna send their kids to college.  Its just people...
And I know people.
Im sure you do...
 Lets let the man have his say...
 Take you, for instance...
 What about me?
You drink about sixteen Diet Cokes a day. Youre an excellent father, but you feel guilty about the time you spend away from home. You drink bourbon, but you offer your clients scotch...
And your wife decorated this office...
He certainly has your number, Alan.
 Youre a little tougher, Peter.
For one thing, you like expensive things.
 Thats easy. Youve seen my car.
 Okay...you smoke Hoyo de Monterreys. Youre a scotch man, single malt, not because its trendy but because youve been doing it for forty years, and you stay with what works. You have two great loves in your life, your horses and this company. You wept openly the day the Dow hit ten thousand...
And youre a man who prides himself on finding talent in unusual places...
Oh? And how would you know that?
Because Im here.
Im prepared to do anything it takes to get this job. Start anywhere you need me to start. Ill park cars if I to... (into Lassiters eyes) The biggest part of judging character is knowing yourself. And I know this, I can do this job. Give me a chance, Peter, I wont let you down.
 Alan, why dont you show Jack around a bit...
Id love to.
 ...thats our war room. We did seven major deals last year, three of them hostile.
 Seven.  Really.
Lets cut the shit, huh Campbell? What, did you go through his wallet or something?
No matter. That circus act back there may have dazzled Lassiter momentarily but it doesnt do shit forme. Even if you get this job, which I highly doubt, let me warn you, Lassiter loses interest in his pet projects very quickly. Im in the big office because Ive proved myself to him year after year and nobody is going to come in here and start turning the old mans head. Especially not some tire salesman from New Jersey. So you watch yourself and stay away from Lassiter, and maybe, just maybe, Ill keep you on after he gets tired of you. Do we understand each other?
Do we?!
God, you really are different, arent you...  I mean...wow...I am impressed.
Good for you. Why shouldnt you protect whats yours.
I dont think youre hearing me.
Oh, Im hearing you, Alan. Thats not the problem. The problem is that what you think is yours, is really mine.  And I dont care how low on the totem pole I start, I will get it back... (poking him in the chest) So do yourself a favor and dont get too attached to that view because sometime soon, maybe very soon, you and your French country antiques, your chintz sofa, and your little play pen are gonna be moving out of that office.
Oh, and by the way, you try selling tires for a living.  I promise you, youd starve.
Welcome to Xanadu...
Pretty incredible, isnt it?
Its like a museum.
 So whats the big surprise? You didnt rent this place for the weekend, did you?
Think bigger.
For the week?
This place is a perk, Kate.
A perk for what?
A company called P.K. Lassiter and Associates Investment House uses it to attract new executives...
Youre talking to their new Vice President of Mergers and Acquisitions.
What are you talking about, Jack?
Im going into arbitrage, honey.  Turns out I have a knack for it.  Ill be making two hundred grand a year plus a hefty bonus and thats just to start.  And, we can live in this apartment practically rent free for as long as we want.
We can finally afford to move back into the city. In style.
Are you out of your mind?
I dont think so. This is going to be a better life for all of us, honey.  Well put Annie and Josh in private schools...
Annie goes to a great school.
Im talking about the best schools in the country here, Kate...
Jack, what could you possibly be thinking? What about my job?
This is New York City, its like the needy people capital of the world.  Those Jersey clients of yours arent a tenth as pathetic as the ones you could get here...
 I cant believe you want to move back into the city.  I thought the reason we left was because we didnt want to raise the kids here?
No, this is the center of the universe.  If I were living in Roman times, I would live in Rome, where else?  Today, America is the Roman Empire and New York is Rome itself. John Lennon.
 Jack.
Look, Im detecting a kind of funky tension here...We dont have to live in this apartment. I dont need this...Ill commute...Ill drive to work...
In traffic?  Its over an hour each way?  Thats almost three hours a day.  When are you going to see the kids?
Kate. Youre not understanding me. Im talking about a great life.  A perfect life. Everything we pictured when we were young. The whole package. You said it yourself, life has thrown us surprises, and so we made sacrifices. But now I can finally get us back on track...
I can do that.  I want to do that.  For all of us. I need to do that as a man...  Think about it.  No more lousy restaurants, no more clipping coupons, no more shoveling snow...
Then get a goddamn snow blower!
Dont get a new career without even telling me. Dont take Annie out of a school she loves.  Dont move us out of a house weve become a family in...
 Dont do that...
Look, youre making this into something its not. This isnt a referendum on our lives, Kate. Its a step forward...  Dont you see?  Im talking about us finally having a life other people envy.
They already do envy us, Jack...
Very nice. What is it?
Mary Had A Little Lamb.
Ah. A classic...
Please dont stop...
From London to New York...?  I came back...
Our finest moment, right...
When you got on that plane I was sure it was over.  I left the airport afraid Id never see you again.  And then you showed up the very next day...  That was a good surprise...
I think about you on that plane, about what must have been going through your mind...you sitting there imagining our life together, our life apart...I think about the decision you made...
Maybe I was being naive but I believed wed grow old together in this house.  That wed spend holidays here, have g randchildren visit us here.  I had this image of us all grey and wrinkly, me working in the garden, you repainting the deck...
Things change, right? People change...  If you need this, Jack, I mean really need this, I will take these children from a life they love, and take myself from the only home weve ever shared, and move wherever you need to go.  Ill do that because I love you...
I love you, Jack. And thats more important to me than our address...
I choose us.
 I knew youd come back...
What are you doing?
 Ringing my bell...
Four ninety nine?! Its just salt for gods sake...
Thatll be sixty five cents, little angel...
You...!
What are you doing here...
Youre not sending me back...
Jack, its good to see you...
 Thank you darlin...
 What do you got there, rock salt?  Look at you, all domestic and shit... You really figured some things out, huh?
Im not going back...
 Everything okay...?
Yeah...fine.
 Hey! Did you hear me...?!
EMPTY_LINE
Hey, Im talking to you! I am not going back, do you understand...?!
You cant do this. You cant keep coming in and out of peoples lives, messing things up...
Cmon, Jack...
Ive got kids, Im going home...
You know what the word glimpse means, J? Its by nature an impermanent thing.
 Im staying.
 Is it morning yet?
No, honey. Go back to sleep.
Take care of yourself, Annie.  Im going back to the mother ship...
 Hey...
These last weeks, Kate, I know that Ive done some...some unusual things.
Its been interesting, thats for sure.
But Ive done some good things too, havent I?
Youve been Jack Campbell.  And thats always a good thing...
I need you to remember me, Kate.  How I am right now, right this very moment.  I need you to put that image in your heart and keep it with you, no matter what happens.
Are you okay, Jack?
Please, just promise me youll do that. You have to promise, Kate. Because if you dont, then its like it never happened and I dont think I could live with that.
I promise, Jack...
Promise me again...
I promise. Come to bed, honey.
Soon...
 Yeah...okay, send her up...
 Damnit.
Waiting for me by the door, huh?
Paula...
 Thats totally see through...
 Merry Christmas...
 Christmas?  It cant be Christmas...
 Its whatever you want it to be, Jack...
Jack?...Jack!
Can I help you?
Is Kate here? Does Kate live here?!
Kate? No, theres no one here named Kate.  Is that good enough for you?
Damn...damn...damn...
Hey, are you okay?
No...Im not...
Is there anything I can do for you?
Hey, my wifes in the kitchen. You got a cigarette?
Im sorry, no...
 Hey, you cant park that thing here.
 Its me, Jack...
I dont care if youre Tim Allen with your fancy car and all your tools, you still cant park here.
Tell me you recognize me, Arnie.  Please...
Howd you know my name?
We bowl together. Were bowlers ...we won a championship...were winners.
I never won anything in bowling.
Wait a second...  Jack...Jack...
Yes...Jack Campbell...
Of course. Jack Campbell. I went to high school with you...you played baseball, right?  Youre doing well...
 Yes, thats it...yes, we went to high school together.
You never really talked to me.  I wanted to talk to you, man...
Yeah...I guess I just wanted you to know, we couldve been really good friends...
 Hello?
Hey Santa, where are you? Everybodys here.
Adelle?
You were supposed to be here half an hour ago...the emergency strategy session? Your trip to Aspen? Theyre all panicked here...
Jack...? Are you going through the tunnel?
Ill be there in twenty minutes...
 Thank god, Jacks here. Ill call you right back...
 Jack, are you okay?
 Whats going on here?
Its not good.  Bob Thomas has secretly been talking to a European drug company. Were not sure which one, Julias on it right now. Word is theyre willing to let him buy a minority stake and keep running the entire company.  The Global people are up in arms.  They say we shouldve been prepared for this.  Were in trouble here, Jack...
You know something, Alan. Theres a much more assertive person somewhere inside of you...
Excuse me?
But I think I like you better this way...
Is this another one of those Sun Tzu Art of War tricks?
No.
So what are we gonna do, Jack?
Jack...?
Ill tell you exactly what were going to do.  Youre going to do whatever you have to do to find out which European company hes been talking to.  Then Im going to clean myself up, fly to Aspen, and drink egg nog with Bob Thomas.  His wife and kids will be playing in the background while I spend Christmas day convincing him that the European company is the devil and Global is the answer to his prayers, after all...  Then Im going to spend four hours skiing. Alone. On Christmas day. Completely and utterly alone. Im going to do that because that is my life, that is whats real, and there is nothing I can do to change that...
 For Manhattan...Kate Reynolds...I need an address too...
Make a right here...
But the airports the other way...
Were not going to the airport...
Are you from the shipping company?
Im Jack Campbell...Im an old... friend of Kates. I just called.
Kate! Some guys here!
 Did you call the airline like I asked?!
Kate...
Jack...God, its been so long...You look...
You look great.
Its good to see you...
 Lori! Wheres that box?!
 I'm sorry...
Dont worry about it, Jack...
Whats going on?
 Im moving to Paris...it was right here...  Its a box marked Jack.  I put it in the stack for the Salvation Army...
Paris?
 Do you want me to look for the box or call the airline?
Hey, kind of under a little pressure here.
Hey, kind of giving up Christmas day for my ex-boss here.
You didnt seem to mind offering to help me on Christmas day when you were unwrapping that Prada bag I gave you.
Maybe its by the wardrobe boxes...
Youre moving...
Uh huh. To Paris. My firm has an office there and Im going to be heading it up.
 To Paris. Paris, France.
 Thats the one...
So youre not at a non- profit firm?
 Not with what they pay me...
Youre not married, are you?
No, Jack, I never got married. You?
Not exactly...  Can we just take a minute here?  Maybe get a cup of coffee or something...?
 Ill go for a cup of coffee!
Yes!
I found it!
Congratulations. The La Guardia flights canceled but I got you out of Kennedy on United at nine. Am I good or what?
Here you go.  Its just some old things of yours...
Do you ever think about us, Kate?  About what might have happened...?
Youre serious...
Ill tell you what, Jack, if youre ever in Paris, look me up. Maybe well go for that cup of coffee.
Sure. Goodbye, Kate.
 Kate!
You cant go!
Jesus, Jack...
Dont get on that plane!
Jack.
Please. Lets just go have a cup of coffee. Thats all Im asking for. Im sure theres another flight to Paris tonight.
What do you want from me? You want me to tell you everything that happened was okay?
Well it is. Yes, I was heartbroken ...But I got over it. I moved on. People change, Jack. I changed. I dont know why you suddenly feel the need to revisit that time in our lives but I assure you, its over...
 We have a house in Jersey!
Dont do this, Jack... But he continues...
We have two kids, Annie and Josh...
...Annies not much of a violin player but she tries really hard. Shes a little precocious but thats only because she says whats on her mind. And when she smiles...
And Josh...he has your eyes. He doesnt say much but we know hes smart...  ...hes always got his eyes open, always watching us... sometimes you can look at him and just know that hes learning something new... its like witnessing a miracle...
...the house is a mess, but its ours...  ...well, after a hundred twenty two more payments it will be...
And you...youre a non- profit lawyer. Thats right, completely non-profit. But that doesnt seem to bother you...
And were in love. After thirteen years of marriage were still unbelievably in love...  You wont even let me touch you until Ive said it...
...I sing to you...not all the time but definitely on special occasions...
 Excuse me...  We made a lot of sacrifices, dealt with our share of surprises, but we stayed together...
You see, youre a better person than I am...
...and it made me a better person to be around you...
Maybe it was all a dream. Maybe I went to bed one lonely night in December and imagined it all. But I swear, nothings ever felt more real to me...
And if you get on that plane right now, itll disappear forever.
I know we can both go on with our lives. And wed both be fine. But Ive seen what we can be like together...And I choose us...
Please, Kate, one cup of coffee. You can always go to Paris. Just please, not tonight...
Okay, Jack...
