 The guy in the brown coat.
Son of a bitch!
What's your name, asshole?
Fuck you, Santa Claus!
Your name is Willie Craven.
Who's your connection, Willie? What's his name?
Who killed the old Jew in the laundromat?
I don't...
Ever pick your feet in Poughkeepsie?
What?
Did you ever pick your feet in Poughkeepsie?
I don't know what you're talkin' about.
Were you ever in Poughkeepsie?
No... yeah...
Did you ever sit on the edge of the bed, take off your socks and stick your fingers between your toes?
Man, I'm clean.
You made three sales to your roaches back there.  We had to chase you through all this shit and you tell me you're clean?
Who stuck up the laundromat?
How about that time you were picking your feet in Poughkeepsie?
 You better give me the guy who got the old Jew or you better give me something or you're just a memory in this town.
That's a lot o' shit.  I didn't do nothin'.
You put a shiv in my partner.  Know what that means?  All winter I gotta listen to him gripe about his bowling scores.  Now I'm gonna bust your ass for those three bags - then I'm gonna nail you for pickin' your feet in Poughkeepsie.
Havin' trouble?  You're a dumb guinea.
How'd I know he had a knife.
Never trust a nigger.
He coulda been white.
Never trust anybody.  You goin' sick?
Not a chance.
Let's popeye around the Chez for a half hour, catch the end of the show and a couple drinks.
Some other time Jimmy, I'm beat.
Come on -- one drink.  Whatta you say?
Drink this.
Whip it out.
I make at least two junk connections at that table in the corner.  The guy is the stripe combo, I know him too.
Hey, I thought we come for a drink.
Who is that guy?
Policy man in Queens.
What about the last of the big-time spenders.  You make him?
No, you?
Hunh-uh.  Check the bread.  He spreads it like the Russians are in Jersey.
He probably sells insurance.  Owns a chicken farm in Hackensack.
Dig who's just come over.  The creep on the end.
Jewish Lucky from the Bronx... He don't look the same without a number across his chest.
Whatta you say we wait and give him a tail?
Give who a tail?
The greaser with the blonde.
What for -- you wanna play Hide the Salami with his old lady?
Come on -- just for fun --
Monica?  Who's Monica?
 A and A, that's all you're interested in -- Arrests and Ass.
Cloudy, I'll lay odds he takes us to Little Italy.
I'm telling you, Popeye, he owns a bagel mine in the Bronx.
It's a drop!
It's startin' to cook, Cloudy, my man is cookin'...
En prolongeant les quais d'une trentaine de mtres on pourra recevoir des units d'une cargaison de 500 tonnes.
Et combien d'hommes supplmentaires?
Ca fera environ 10 hommes de plus par quipe.
Le Syndicat exigera un minimum de 12.
Quelle importance.  Ce qui compte pour moi c'est d'avoir un chantier qui puisse recevoir les plus grands bateaux du monde.
Dis moi vieille branche?  Comment fais tu pour rester si jeune avec la vie que tu mnes?
Quelle vie Marcel?  J'ai plus rien foutu depuis que je suis descendu de ces cabines.
Bonjour chrie.
Tu sais j'ai rflchi longuement ton cadeau pour le voyage.  Je l'ai choisi moi-mme.  Tiens.
Je peux l'ouvrir tout de suite?
Si tu veux.
 Oh Alain!  C'est merveilleux!  Tu me gtes.  Je t'aime.  Attends, je vais te montrer moi aussi ce que j'ai achet.
Encore du sho ping!
Regarde mon pcheur de baleine... Tu sais il va faire trs froid cet hiver.
Avec a tu pourras le supporter.
Mais non, c'est pour toi.
Pour moi?
Regarde, il te va parfaitement bien!
Formidable!  Sans toi je m'habillerais encore en docker.  Je suis pass voir Franoise.
Comment va-t-elle?
Je n'ai jamais vu tant de srenit. Elle m'a demand de tes nouvelles et si nous tions heureux.
Le sommes nous?
 Non!
Ca a march?
Au poil.
Sale boulot.
Il fallait le faire.
Il est en retard.
Je crois qu'on fait une erreur de le prendre avec nous.
Une erreur!  C'est gnial.  C'est une vedette  la tlvision.  Il peut aller partout sans tre souponn... En plus il a besoin de fric.
J'ai pas confiance en lui.
Sois gentil avec lui.  On ne sait jamais.  Il peut te faire travailler la tlvision.
Henri c'est gentil d'tre venu.  Je vous prsente mon associ, Pierre Nicoli.  Henri Devereaux.
Enchant.  Alain, j'ai rflchi  votre proposition et j'ai dcid d'accepter.
Our friend's name is SALVATORE BOCA. They call him SAL.  He's a sweetheart.  He once was picked up on suspicion of armed robbery. Tried to hold up Tiffany's on Fifth Avenue!  In broad daylight!  Could have got two-and-a-half to five, but they wouldn't prosecute.  Also downtown they're sure he pulled off a contract on a guy named DeMarco.
His old lady?
Her name's Angie... Fast filly... she drew a suspended for shoplifting a year ago... only a kid, nineteen according to the marriage license.
Yeah, nineteen goin' on fifty. What else?
He's had the store a year an'a half... takes in a fast seven grand a year.
So what's he doin' with two cars and hundred dollar tabs at the Chez?
The Merc's in his wife's name. Dodge belongs to his brother.
Lou... he's a trainee at the Sanitation School on Ward's Island. Served time a couple of years ago, on assault and robbery raps.
If that's not a drop or a pickup, I'll open a charge for you at Bloomingdale's.
Make it Alexander's, I like the toy department.
Toy wit' this will ya.
There's about a hundred years' parole time in there night or day.
They treat our boy like a king. Wonder why he don't bring his old lady?
There's your answer...
Who's the greaser?
It's his father.
I think we oughta burn him on suspicion.
Suspicion of what?
Makin' wine in the basement.  He looks like that wop stooge used to drive for the Fracisi brothers.
Lay off with that wop stuff, will you?
That's the third time he come here this week.  You got anything on the building?
The building's clean.  I checked the tenant list -- Don Ameche, the actor lives there -- oh, and somebody else.  Do the name Joel Weinstock ring a bell?
You're kiddin'
No sir -- this is where Joel lives.
He was the bank on that shipment outta Mexico three years ago.
So I've heard.
Whatta you know -- he's takin' his wife out for a change.
 Got a job for me when this is over, Mrs. Levene?
What are you fellows looking for? What do you want from that nice candy store?
We have reason to believe it's a front for the biggest counterfeiting operation in the country.
What?
That's right.  They're trying to steal the formula for Hershey bars --
What the hell am I drivin' for? I'm a first grade Detective. You're a second grade guinea.
I'm wounded.  Oh, oh.
 What?
He's goin' to Ward's Island.  We'll get spotted.  What the hell's he goin' there?
Maybe he's goin' to see his brother.
Or could be another drop.  I guess he gets a free ride.
Hands on your heads.  Popeye's here!
What's my name?
Doyle.
What?
Mr. Doyle.
Ever pick your feet in Poughkeepsie?
What?
Milk shake anyone?
Move ass when I tell you.
Put it on the bar.
 All right, you three clowns step into those phone booths, you're goin' in.  Go on.  Stand in there till I'm ready for you.
Everybody goes when the whistle blows.
What's your story?
Gimme a break, Mr. Russo.  I'm in show business.
You're in show business.
S'right.
What do you do in show business?
I'm a dancer.
All right, get up on that bar and dance.
What?
Get up on the bar and show me how you work.  If I like it you don't have to go in.
You're for real?
Hey man, why don't you let the fella alone.
 Am I talkin' to you -
No, but I'm talkin' to you.
I'm tellin' you to shut up and stand over there.
 Get up there.
I got no music!
Fake it.
All right, that's enough, you're under arrest.
What about you?  Can you stand a toss?
I'm clean.
You don't use shit?
No. 
Did I say you could move that hand -- I'm not gonna get stuck am I?
No - no.
Cause if I do.
Wise guy, huh?  Let's see what else you got.  - Buddy!
If I see any shit on the floor, it's yours, so keep your eye on your neighbor.
How's everything?
Everything is everything.
How come there's nothing out there? That stuff is all milk.
There's nothing around.  Nobody's holding.
I got a name - Sal Boca, Brooklyn.
Boca?
B.O.C.A.
Doesn't register.
Got a wife named Angie.
No, nothing.  There's only some talk.
What?
Coming in this week, week after. Everybody going to get well.
Who brings it?
Who knows?
Where do you want it?
This side.
I'm goin' check on this address in the Bronx, if you're bullshitting me, it's your ass.
Tell everybody we'll be back in an hour.
 We're goin' now!  Goodbye.
How long will you be here?
Not long enough.  Two... perhaps three... weeks at most.
The next several weeks will be very difficult and the middle of the ocean is the only place where the telephone isn't ringing all the time.
What will be the viewpoint of your documentary.
To make a Frenchman feel what it is like to be a New Yorker.
That's enough now, ladies and gentlemen.  M. Devereaux is due at his hotel in half an hour.
 All that is great -- but you guys work Bed-Stuy.  You're not supposed to be in Ridgewood.
Detach us.  Let us have a shot at it, at least until we see if there's anything here or not. Everybody wants Weinstock, right? So maybe here's a lead.  We deserve it.
You couldn't burn a three-time loser with what you're bringing in here.  You know you stiffs could run yourselves an entrapment rap. The guy has done nothing -- Brooklyn is full of Candy Store guys with two cars who like to go to nightclubs.
Put this little candy hustler together with Joel Weinstock and it could be we stumbled into a big score.
 Big score!  He's dealin' a few bags here and there on the side.
Simonson, I wouldn't be infringing on your coffee break if I thought he was a nickel and dimer.
Your hunches have backfired before, Doyle.
 Jimmy, what the hell's happening with you lately?  You got more collars than any Narc in the bureau.  What was it.  Over 100 last year?  Terrific.  But who? 
You stop and shake down a bellboy because he's got three joints in his sock.  You hit a high school kid in short pants who looks like he's got a twitch.
 We got information that there's no shit in the street -- it's like a desert full of junkies with a big score coming in to make everybody well.
This could be it, Walter.  This Candy Store guy, putting on a big show in a fancy nightclub with known connections all over him. Then on our own, after working the whole day and night, we tail him out to Brooklyn and sit on him for a week practically, and who do we come up with?  Joel Weinstock.  You gotta let us have it.
 You really believe all this crap?
I go with my partner.
What'll it take?
First a wire.
Two wires.  One on the store and one on his house.
You know I have to get a court order for wiretaps.
Try... okay?
We know you can do it, Walter.
Popeye...
You still pickin' your feet in Poughkeepsie?
What's this crap.  I just          (He raps on table spoke to my wife and she           with a coffee cup. says you're raisin' me a           Doyle gets up.) halfa cent on the cups.        C'mere and lissen to your big connection. WHOLESALER He's fightin' with somebody Yeah, well you know I          about a halfa cent. shoulda raised this here a long time ago.  We got a                DOYLE inflation period...            How we gonna keep Simonson from hearin' this? SAL I got your inflation.  I can            RUSSO get the same cups on Delancey  If he does, we'll be back in Street for what I been         Bed-Stuyvesant tomorrow. payin' you for the last year -- That's all I gotta do with you guys -- next time it'll be two cents on the cones, then two cents on the seltzer --
 C'mon Sal, I got my orders, too --
Well, if you can't do better than that, you can stick the cups.
There are four auto graveyards like this one in the other boroughs, handling about a thousand vehicles a month.  Those that aren't claimed are auctioned here once a month.
Just for mistakes of parking?
No.  Many are involved in crimes and confiscated... or just abandoned. This is, as you know, your prime source of scrap metal, M. Charnier.
 Darling, may I have this one?
It looks so lonesome here.
It would look even more lonesome in our garage.
Every car sold today must be removed at the purchaser's own expense.  We have no keys or anything to start the vehicles with. You buy 'em as you see 'em and where you see 'em.  All right, the first car offered is Number 24398. A Plymouth sedan.  Do I hear fifteen dollars?
We go to 24399 -- A Pontiac Station wagon.  Do I hear ten dollars?
 Notice he will never mention the year of the car.
I got a fifteen dollar bid going... Do I hear anymore... Eighteen... who'll say Eighteen? Twenty... Twenty-three... Anymore... Twenty-five.  Twenty-five once -- Do I hear twenty-eight... All right, last call for twenty- five...
 And these are the cars we're buying for shipment?
Yes, sir.  That man in the dark jacket is our buyer.
 Where are you?
Takin' care o' business, honey.
Takin' care o' business -- it's after midnight.
You know I hadda meet some people tonight --
-- Well finish all your meetin' people and get back here now -- and bring a pizza with you.
Where'm I goinna get a pizza this time o' night?
Well try, okay?
I don't know where I'm gonna find a pizza joint open.
Sal --
Yeah?
Don't forget anchovies. 
This broad's crazy!
It's beautiful.
It was built in 1917 - and was one of the two heaviest bridges in the world.  The arch is still the largest in the world.
Who financed it?
Two railroads as part of a connecting railway which provided passage from New England to the South.  It was actually the first railroad through New York City.
Why is it called Hellgate?
The river at this point is the most dangerous on the East Coast.  Years ago, hundreds of ships went down here.
If this bridge were in Europe, it would be on every tourist's sight- seeing list.
Most New Yorkers never notice it - most Americans have never heard of it.
Look how gracefully they conceived that arch.  Like a bowstring.  It was built from both ends.  With no support in the middle.  Beautiful.
Mmm.
Alain is the only man I know who can become as enthusiastic about a bridge as he can about a woman.
Not any woman, Marie.  Just one.
I'm afraid the rest of Ward's Island isn't nearly as romantic - a pollution plant, a hospital, a training school for garbage men and that area over there, where the old cars are kept, prior to being processed for shipment to, among other places, The Charnier Shipping Company, of Marseilles, France.
What is that old building?
Oh, it's been abandoned for years.
What was it?
It was a crematorium.
For garbage?
For dead bodies.
Allo... Salvatore...
Who's this --
... Salvatore?...
... Oh... yes... yeah...       Who is it? hello... this is Sal... How are ya?                                 DOYLE Sounds like a foreigner... CHARNIER Very well... you meet me                RUSSO Wednesday at the hotel...          (listening at the Okay?                              other phone) French... It's a Frenchman... SAL Good... good... great!                  DOYLE This is what we been waitin' CHARNIER        for -- the stuff is here! Will I expect you?             It's here!
What time?
Twelve o'clock... yes...
Yes --
You're Fifty Dollars short.
M'sieru - the tab for this scene is a hundred and a half.  Hey Frenchie - if you don't come up with the scratch, you're gonna run into my man downstairs.
Don't hit me.  Don't.  Please.
You filthy faggot sonofabitch.
This is the new American religion, professional football.  It is where everybody goes instead of church on Sunday to express that peculiar American taste for bloodshed and violence.
These men, playing a "game" - make more money each year than many important business leaders, artists or government officials.  It tells us something about this country and how its men live, or go to war with a smile, and sometimes die without a cause.
It's for you - Alain Charnier.
Hey, Bo.
Hiya, Jesus.
Can you use a new suit for Christmans?
Whatta you got?
Whatta you?... a 44... 46?
Where'd you get this fag shit?
This is what the tough guys are wearin'.  You know I only steal from the best.  It's Bonwit Teller.
Pass.
Forty dollars -- was $250.
Whyn't you get it dry cleaned and burned.
A big man could alluz beat a little man.  That's why Wilt Chamberlain could murder Jim Brown if they ever fought.
No chance.  Brown'd kill him.
Chamberlain's seven foot tall, right?  He's got a twelve-foot reach.  It's geophysics.  He's punchin' down on you with leverage. He cave your chest in.
Best I ever seen was The Rock.  He was the calmest and the meanest. Guys like Sugar'd be pukin' before a fight.  Jake LaMotta'd be pukin'. Marciano was calm like he was goin' to church.  What about the night he fought LaStarza?  He hit him so hard he broke the blood vessels in LaStarza's arms.  He was the strongest meanest bastard ever lived.
Hey, Mutchie, give us another bullet.
Blackjack Burns coulds been the greatest ever --
-- He was a stone tanker.
That's right, he couldn't fight legit.  One night at the Garden about 1950, '51 -- he fought either Jake LaMotta or Gus Lesnevich, I think it was -- he took one o' those cream puff punches in the sixth -- the laziest left you ever seen -- missed him entirely.  Down goes Blackjack without even workin' up a sweat and the whole Garden gets up in its feet and I swear to Christ, everybody starts singin' "Dance With Me Henry."
I fought a guy in Cleveland once. I knew he was a dirty fighter so I stick a crowbar in my crotch. Right here.  Second round he gives me a shot -- Boom -- he breaks his hand, the fight's over.
Fuck it, I like nitroglycerin, that's my game.
What about you, Doyle?  Who's the best fighter you ever seen?
 Willie Mays.
With a baseball bat!  One swing! Knock your fuckin' head off.
What ya doin' out so late?  Hidin' from the cops?
I hear the health department is going to close this joint for selling dirty beer.  I come by to help you carry out your money.
They'll close you down if they ever get a look at those busted-valise broads you run with.
You want some eggs.
Why not?
 Hey, Mutch!  You want bacon?
Yeah!
 Where the hell is it?
Where the hell do you think it is, potato head?
No wonder there's so many Mafia around.  Ya couldn't find a Puerto Rican in Spanish Harlem.
I got this little chick I'm tryin' to hit on.  She's about 20, 21... I take her to Jilly's last night and she's tellin' me about how she wants to settle down one day, get married... I says, "Hey, this is 1971, baby, I'm just a dirty old man lookin' to score with some pussy."
Strike out, eh?
Yeah.  In the late innings.  Ya look like a night's sleep wouldn't kill ya.
A piece of ass wouldn't kill me.
When ya go back on?
Morning.  Sometime.
Whyn't ya stretch out on the pool table for a couple hours.  The kid comes in at six will wake ya.  A couple eggs and a beer is cheaper than keepin' a dog around the joint.
You got a pedaller's license?
What?
You're under arrest.
Whatta you got -- four more years, Walter?
Three.
Christ, by the time you get out all this shit'll be legal.
 The judge gave you ten days on these.  Klein and Mulderig will be sitting in for the Federals.  Tell Doyle they'll make all the buys, and that they're to be kept informed of everything that goes down.
You know Doyle, don't you Bill?
 Sure, I know Popeye.  The Master of undercover, whose brilliant idea of disguise is to limp into a room on his left foot and limp out on his right.  Whose brilliant hunches cost the death of a good officer --
If that's how you're coming in, why not stay home and save us all a lot of grief.
That's just my opinion.
Whyn't you shove it up your ass!
Popeye.
Popeye.
 Yeah.
It's Cloudy.  Open the door.
 I can't.
Why not?
 Let yourself in.
 What the hell you got holding the door?
What happened to you?
 The crazy kid handcuffed me to the bed.  With my own cuffs.
Oh!
 You oughta get plastic covers for this stuff like I did - your scrapbook's a mess like everything else in your life.
Gimme my pants.
You got the warrant?
 We also got Bill Mulderig and Phil Klein.
What do we need those pricks for?
Because by actual count our bureau has exactly nine hundred eighteen dollars and fifty-four cents to make buys and Mulderig's Feds can get all of Uncle Sam's money he wants by just asking.
Throw 'em in the bathroom, will you? How good are the warrants?
 Sixty days.  Here.  Don't mention it.
Hi!
Drive carefully!
Strictly small potatoes.
You really know how to pick 'em, Doyle.
Still wearing your gun on your ankle?
Somebody told me the reason you did that was so's when you met a chick and rubbed against her she wouldn't know you were a cop.
I said that was bullshit.  It must be some kind of fast-draw gimmick or something.
Knock it off, Bill.
He's gettin' too far ahead.  You're gonna lose him.
Phil -- it's Cloudy -- we lost him --
He just got off the Bridge - He's all yours if you can find him. Sonofabitch!
Excuse me.
 Excuse me.
You take Sal.  I'll stick with the beard if they split.
You want the red or the white?
Pour it in your ear.
Yes sir?
That guy just walked in.  What's his name?
I'm sorry, I don't know who you mean.
 He got off on six.
We have four rooms and six suites on six.  There's a man in almost every one of them.
Little shorter than me.  Well- dressed.  About forty-five or fifty with salt-and-pepper hair, a beard.
There's nobody like that on six.
Perhaps he's visiting a guest.
No, I figure he stays here.  Where's your registration?
There may be two... no, three who could fit it.
Names.
A Mr. Paul Ganapolos, he's here alone.
Where from?
Des Moines.
What's he do?
Businessman.  Owns a department store in Des Moines, I think.
Mr. and Mrs. Alain Charnier, would be another.  He's in shipping.
Yeh?  Who else?
And a Mr. Michael Lowenstein, I don't know what he does.
This Charnier guy.  He's in shipping?
I think so.  But they're in Room 408.  On the fourth floor.
Where's he from?
Marseilles.
EMPTY_LINE
That's in France.
Yeah, I know.
You about ready for a break?
The guy's a frog -- I'm pretty sure. Also he made me.  Stayin' on four but went up to six -- cute.
The other guy's a frog too.  Checked in at the Edison.  Had a hooker sent up.
Christ you should o' collared him right there.
Who's on him?
Phil Klein.
What about Sal?
We put him to bed for the night.
Why don't you do the same, Doyle? You look like shit.
 Look.  My partner and I found this case and I don't want no Feds screwing it up.
Case?  So far I haven't seen a damn thing.
Bill, keep shootin' your mouth off and I'll knock you into the middle of next week.
Jimmy, cool it.  Nothin's goin' down tonight.  Cop a few zzz's while you can.
Absolutely dynamite!  89.5 proof! Best I've ever seen!  If the rest is like this, you'll be dealing for two years on this load.
Retail is not my end of the business. Are you telling me it's worth the half million?
How many kilos?
Sixty.
Six kilos at eight big ones a kilo...  I'd say it should be able to take a seven to one hit in the street.
By the time it gets down to nickel bags it's at least thirty-two million!
Thank you, Howard.  Take what's left there with you and goodnight.
I guess we got a deal, eh?
We got a test.  A deal for half a million dollars, maybe.
Joel, the man is in a hurry.  He wants the bread and he wants to go back to France.  He ain't gonna hang around and play games.  He's one o' the shrewdest cats I ever run across.
What am I, a shmuck?  What's the hurry?  He could see a couple of shows and visit the top of the Empire State Building.
Joel, don't jerk me.  I spent a lot o' time settin' this one up.
So whatta you want a badge?  It's your first major league game Sal. One thing I learned, move calmly, move cautiously.  You'll never be sorry.
I been damn careful up to now.
Which is why your phone lines are tapped and the Feds are crawlin' all over you like flies.
I'm straight, Joel.  They haven't got shit on me.  Look, I'm tellin' you, he'll take the deal somewhere else.
He could go someplace else with his sixty kilos of heroin and see how easy it is to pull together a half million cash.  He wouldn't find there was any hurry to do this kind of business.
Look, the stuff is here.  We could set up the switch in an hour.  I'm tellin' you, Mr. Weinstock, he'll split if we don't move.  This guy is everything they say he is.
What about you, Sal?  Are you everything they say you are?
You own that lamppost?
No.
Then how come you're leaning on it.
I ever bust you?
I never seen you before.
Get your ass in the car.
You gonna wait on me or am I gonna sit here all day?
Hey!
 C'mere... C'mere!
Can you stand a toss, Hector?
What you mean?
You still dealin' shit?
Jesus, no, Doyle.  I'm clean.  I'm working twelve hours a day here.
When they going to make you chairman of the board?
You clean your fingernails with this.
Rather be caught with it than without it.
Yeah, I guess so.
I'm sittin' on Frog One.
Yeah, we got the Westbury covered like a tent.
The Westbury?  Balls.  I got him down at the subway at Times Square. What the hell's goin' on?  I make him coming right out of the hotel free as a bird.  Not a soul awake.
I don't care how many bartenders are sick.  I don't work in that joint.  What the hell kind of a union are you running down there?
 This belonged to the kid who was drivin' the sports car.  17 years old.  His girlfriend OD'd in the car.  We found this set of works in her arm.
 Where the hell was the surveillance? "Go to bed." That's all you could say.  You couldn't keep track of a bleeding elephant in a snowbank.
Jimmy, it doesn't matter anymore. If there was a deal it must have gone down by now.  We blew it!  We blew our cover and we blew the warrants --
Charnier and his wife checked out of the Westbury.  Nicoli checked out of the Edison --
This fella Nicoli's got a record in France, Walter.  He's wanted for questioning in the murder of a French cop.
I say we keep sittin' on Boca.
That's crazy.  You lost the Frog in the subway and you blew our cover. If they haven't moved already they're not gonna move now.
Walter, I can make this case if the Feds will get the hell out of my way.
With pleasure -- it's all yours. Walter, if anything develops outta this charade give me a call.
 My ass.  The only reason you're in this is because you've got a big expense account for buying junk and you like to see your picture in the papers.
 This is my case.  Get these guys off my back and let me handle it.
For chrissake, will you come off that "my case" bullshit.  This has been a whore's dream from the start.
The deal hasn't gone down yet Walter -- I know it, I can feel it.
The last time you were dead certain we ended up with a dead cop.
 That's enough.  Get the hell out of here.
 Jimmy, you wasted two months - no collars are comin' in while you two been out jerkin' off.  Now go back to work, you're off Special Assignment.
It has been highly informative and a personal pleasure to see you again.
I only hope we cut through to some meaningful proposals in the next month or so.  The pleasure was mine, Mr. Charnier.  When will we see you again?
Soon, probably in the Spring.
Goodbye.
 Goodbye.  Good trip home.
Everything's smooth.  Beautiful.  I will need a few more days though, the boys think we oughta cool it for awhile -- make sure there's no heat.
 You must take me for an imbecile. Why do you think I asked you to meet me in Washington?  I haven't spent five minutes in New York City without the company of a gendarme.
Look, I'll level with you -- I need a little more time -- I got to shift gears.
Are you having trouble raising the half million?
Hell no -- my end is covered -- my associates just feel we ought to wait for a more opportune time to make the switch.
It has to be by the end of this week.
Look, Mr. Charnier, you got to be reasonable.
It's your problem.
It's yours too!
So nice to have seen you again.
Look, darling, they sell these at the Smithsonian.
Are you sure it is dead?
I'm going to put them on the cat.
That's a relief.
You did find something for yourself, of course.
Of course.  But I am not going to tell you what it is until we are back in Marseilles.
Excuse me a moment, darling.
I'm afraid they've become a bit... over-cautious.  Our American friends.
What happens to the schedule?
We must follow it.
But will they?
I don't know.  Boca is scared. He's not strong enough.  He sees policemen in his soup.
He is not wrong.
Mmmmm.  That bastard who followed me on the subway, he's the eager one.
Let me take him out.
There'll be someone else.
What difference does it make? We'll be out of the country Friday.
 Everybody, down!  Get down on the ground!
Get down!  It's a sniper.  Get down!
Stop that guy.  He's wanted by the police!
Where's the next stop?  Going into the city?
 25th Avenue.
Police!
What the hell?
 Police!  Emergency!
Blind sonofabitch!
Don't stop!  Continue on to the next station!
I got to stop.
Touch the brake and I'll blow you in half.
The signal lights are automatic. If I go through a red I'll be automatically braked.
Didn't stop. Went right through there... Hey, man, that's my station... Where the hell's he going? Hey, stop the car...
He's got a gun... The motorman's gone crazy... Oh my God!
Get back.
Hey, you can't...
 I can't breathe.
We'll crash. Won't somebody please help me. Murder He's a killer. Crash.  We'll crash! Stop.  Stop the train.
Hey, Mac, have you seen...?
...the guy who runs this joint?
Yeh.  He's over getting my car.
Can I help you...?
He's in the brown Lincoln - foreign plates.
Timezit?
Four.
 Same car.
Third time around.
 Let's him 'em.
Police!  Don't move... get you... hands up... you're under arrest...
Up!  Up, you sonofabitch!
Of all the goddam cars they had to pick to steal hubcaps.
 A bunch of lousy little spic car thieves.
Nothing in there except a New York street map.
Tumble it.  One end to the other.
Nobody's been under there with anything but a grease gun since if came off the line.
I don't buy it.  The stuff is on this car.
Then you find it.  I can't.
The car was lost sometime this evening.  First they send us to Pier One -- then they send us here --
I don't understand why you had it parked on the waterfront.  You're staying at the Doral and you lose your car somewhere out by the Brooklyn Bridge.
In point of fact, M. Devereaux is scouting locations for a film for French Television.  He left the car to look at some point of interest.
 We were told by the Police Commissioner's office that the car was brought to this garage.  I demand its immediate return.
If you'll be patient, Mr. Devereaux.
 I have been patient enough.  There is no reason I should have to waste time with this red tape.
Mr. Devereaux is an extremely important guest of this country. He is working with the absolute cooperation and participation of your government.  Here are his credentials from the French Consulate.  Unless you wish to see this episode portrayed in his film I suggest you locate his car immediately.
What are you looking for?  Is it as big as an orange or an elephant's ass?  I've been over every inch -- top to bottom.  If you could give me a club -- to the size...
 What was the weight of the car when you got it, Irv?
 4,839 pounds.
 You're sure?  The manufacturer's spec says it should weigh 4,719 pounds.  This one's carrying roughly 120 extra pounds somewhere.
When it was booked in at Marseilles it weighed the same.  120 pounds overweight.  Jimmy has to be right.
I ripped everything out except the Rocker panels.
What's that?
Got it for you, Randy -- it just came in from downtown.  Who's Devereaux?
This is M. Devereaux.
I'm sorry, Mr. Devereaux, but we get reports on a couple hundred vehicles a night.  Sometimes it's a little tough to keep track.
You mean the car's here now?
Yeah -- fine -- it's okay -- not even a scratch.  You're all set. 
Someone stole it right off the street, huh?  You're gonna have to pay the tow away charge.
I was told these things happen in New York -- but one never expects it.
Yeah.  Well, it's in perfect shape. You must lead a charming life.
Henri...
Did you pick up the car?
It is waiting for you in the garage.
Did they follow you?
I wasn't looking.
Henri... I need one more favor from you.  I know I am imposing...
My friend, I am not sure about what is going on -- but for me, I am finished.
Not quite -- you are in it whether you like it or not.  The police know you brought the car into the country.  This makes you an accomplice.
An accomplice to what?!  What have you gotten me into, Alain?  You asked me to do you a favor -- and I did what you asked -- but you've taken advantage of me.  I have my reputation --
Calm down -- Henri!  You must trust me -- this is an extremely complicated situation to which there is a simple solution if you do exactly what I tell you.  It's worth more money to you.
Goodbye.
Keep going.  Right in there.
Over there.  On the right.
The clear spot.
 Bulls!
Phil, you take that side, Bill, go around the other way.
Jimmy?
Jimmy?
 Cover the other side -- Frog Number One is down there.
 He's gone, Jimmy.  Bill is dead.
The sonofabitch is in here somewhere. I saw him -- I'm gonna get him.
