Here, -- here's a bit of something for you.
Now, now, laddie -- I only wanted to be friendly.
He'll not leave the grave -- not since Wednesday last when we buried the lad.
Your son, ma'am?  He must have been a fine boy for the wee dog to love him so.
A great, kind lad, he was -- gentle with all things like Robbie.
Now I can't get the dog to leave, here.  Perhaps it is for the best. I've not money enough to afford a grave watcher.
 Not much danger here, ma'am, I wouldn't think -- right here in the heart of Edinburgh.
They're uncommon bold, the grave robbers -- and the daft doctors who drive them on.
 I'm by way of being a medical myself.
A doctor?
A student.  I'm studying under Dr. MacFarlane -- that is, I've been studying until today --
I'll get it, ma'am.
 Come, little miss.  Cabman Gray'll carry you safe enough.
Give my horse a pat.  He knows every little girl in Edinburgh. Some day when you're runnin' and playin' in the street he'll nicker at ye as we go by.
I can't run and play.
I'd forgotten that, lassie.  All the more reason for Friend here bidding you a good-day.
Would you mind carrying her up the steps?
Back in your own wee cab.
Thank you.
Thank ye, ma'am.  Thank ye.  You watch sharp, little miss for my horse to give you a "hello".
I would like to see Dr. MacFarlane.
 Dr. MacFarlane?
I'm Mrs. Marsh -- this is my daughter -- Georgina.
Dr. Maximillian of Leyden asked me to present this to you.  He thought you might examine my little girl.
 Maximillian -- a very famous colleague of mine.  I'm delighted to honor his request.
 Born paralyzed?
No.  It was an accident.
Was the paralysis immediate?
No, Doctor.  She seemed to get better, then about six months later she began to complain of pain in her back --
How long after that was the paralysis complete?
Nearly a year.
Any attacks of pain since?
Yes, Doctor.
Is her pain sporadic or constant?
It comes at intervals.  They used to be months apart -- but they've been growing more frequent --  much more frequent.
 See here, child, when you have this pain in your back, where is it?
 I don't know.
Point to where it hurts.  You can at least do that, can't you?
I don't know.
 This is useless, ma'am.
Please, darling, don't be so stubborn.
 Mother -- he frightens me.
Excuse me, Dr. MacFarlane --
Come in, boy -- come in.
Perhaps you can do something with this young lady.  I can't get an aye, yes, or no out of her.
 But, Doctor, I only wanted to speak to you --
 Come -- it's a chance to try out your bedside manner, Fettes.  Take a look at the child.
Are you a doctor, too?
Not yet.
You'll be a good doctor.  I know all about doctors.
That's a nice chair you have.
Useful, too.  Where did you get it? It isn't English, is it?
 What you really want to ask me is about my back, isn't it -- about where it hurts?
Why, yes.
Well --
It's sort of all around here -- then down my legs -- it aches as if I had been walking an awfully long way --  That's funny, isn't it -- because I can't walk at all.
Would you mind very much if I lifted you -- (pointing to a table in the other room) -- onto that table in there?
Child seems to take to the lad. What sort of an accident was it, Ma'am?
A carriage overturned.  My husband was killed and Georgina was hurt.
How long ago?
Three years.
 Dr. MacFarlane --
 Excuse me.
Meg, give Fettes a hand there -- help him wheel the little girl into the hall.
 It seems that Dr. Maximillian is right.  The violence of the accident must have disturbed the tissues and caused a traumatic tumor -- a sort of growth that presses against the nerve centers.
But can anything be done for her?
Perhaps -- a delicate operation -- an operation which has never been performed -- but it could be performed.  I'm sure it could be -- I could incise the columna dorsi --
 And you will try -- you will operate?
Not I, Madame.
But, Doctor, in Leyden -- in Paris - wherever I've taken Georgina -- they've mentioned your name.  I've come to think of you as our only hope.
Believe me, Madame, if I were only a doctor, I would undertake this operation at once.  But I'm more dominie than doctor -- I've a school to run.
But, Doctor, surely in a case like this -- a child -- a little child who can never walk or run --
I regret it, Ma'am, but I have the responsibility of training thirty other doctors to attend a thousand children like your own.
There's nothing I can say for one small child?
I'm not heartless, Ma'am.  I have every sympathy for you and for the little girl, but if I were to consent to every operation brought to me, I'd have no time for teaching -- and that's a great responsibility upon me, Ma'am -- a great responsibility.
 Well, Fettes -- what was it you wanted to see me about?
 I'm afraid I'll have to give up medicine, Dr. MacFarlane.
 You're made for a doctor, young man!
I'm afraid I have to, sir.  You see, my father is vicar at Thrums -- it's a small parish -- not much of a living --
 You're too good a man, Fettes -- I'll not let you quit.  I'll make an assistant of you -- that'll pay your keep and your tuition, too --
I thought only the best students were made assistants.
Well? And are you not a good student?
 But Richardson?
Richardson is a fine student.  He's got a glib tongue, but you'll be a better doctor, Fettes.  Come along now --
-- let's get to the anatomy room -- I'll explain your new duties.
A word with you, Dr. MacFarlane.
You're not having Fettes for your assistant?
And why not?  He's a good lad -- bright and able.
Aye.  He's a good lad.  That's why I ask you, MacFarlane.
You think it'll spoil the boy, eh? Was I not assistant to Knox?
 Aye --
Did it spoil me, Meg, my lass?
 It will do the boy no harm.
-- all my gratitude, sir -- I can never express it...
 They'll be satisfaction enough for me to know I've trained the great Dr. Fettes.
Now -- as to your duties.  It is up to you to keep the accounts and to distribute the specimens to the students.  Also, inasmuch as you'll be living in the house --
 Joseph --
What are you doing, sneaking about here like a Redskin?  Make a little noise, man.  Let people know you're about --
 Yes, Doctor -- yes.
-- otherwise I might get the idea you are trying to spy on me.
You know how we get the specimens we use for dissection?
From the Municipal Council -- they're the bodies of paupers --
That's what the law stipulates but there are not enough of them, Fettes -- there are not enough of them --
Here -- give me a hand -- this is heavy.
You'll find the specimen in good condition.  He was bright and cheerful as a thrush not a week long gone.  A likely lad, I'm told.  You're the new assistant?
 I'm Donald Fettes.
I'm very pleased to know you, Master Fettes.
Mr. Gray?
That's right.  Gray, the cabman. I've had a bit of dealing with MacFarlane in the past, you know.
And I've always gotten along with his assistants -- providing they understood my humble position.
Dr. MacFarlane said I should pay you --
 Of course -- it's the soul of the business -- the pay --
 I have no doubt you have the key in your pocket --
 And there is the box.
My fee is as usual -- ten pounds.
And now, although it's none of my business, I would make the proper entry if I were you.  "One specimen -- ten pounds -- received from -- let us say -- "MacDuff" -- a royal name.
 It's the little cloth-covered book in the drawer.
Good night, Mr. Gray.
My respects, Master Fettes, and may this be the first of many profitable meetings.
Well, well, my boy.  Your first meeting with the redoubtable Gray. You may count it as a milestone in your medical career.
My medical career --
All right, gentleman -- that will do!  Settle down!
Dr. MacFarlane has asked me to review the points he has just discussed with you.
He started with the construction of the ribs and the haemapophyses --
 I suppose this was your doing, Richardson.
Mr. Fettes --
A lady is asking for you.
What lady, Joseph?
If you gentleman will excuse me --
Why do you come here?  The Doctor said he wouldn't operate.
I've already told you I didn't come to see Dr. MacFarlane.
Then whom do you wish to see in MacFarlane's own house?
 So it is in that direction that the wind blows, eh?  It will get you nothing.
 Good morning, Mr. Fettes.
You asked to see me, ma'am?
 I want you to help my little girl.
I'm only a student.
Georgina told me how kind you were to her.  It gave me hope you might intercede for us with Dr. MacFarlane.
I don't know that I can do that, Mrs. Marsh.
Did he tell you about Georgina?
Then he must have told you that this disease is progressive -- that it will grow worse -- that soon she will not be able to move at all.
And you won't ask him to help?
I didn't mean it that way.  I meant only that I am not in a position to ask favors.
Ask this one favor --
 Of course I will.
Georgina was right.  You are a kind man.
I'll do what I can.
 In an adult this muscle can apply more than one hundred seventy-five pounds of pressure?  Double that and you get the full strength of the human jaw.  That, gentlemen, is to chew our food and bite our enemies.
Here, Fettes, life can't be all skittles and ladies --
 It's time for our luncheon.  I've a bit of beef to discuss and --  I leave you all to whatever arrangements you have made to serve the inner man.
Well, I see you have that arm you've been yearning for, Richardson.
Yes, sir.  This fellow must have been a great one at hurling the bar -- beautiful biceps.  Burke and Hare would never have got the best of this fellow.
What did you say?
I was making a joke, sir.
 It's a poor subject for jest, Richardson -- particularly for a medical student.
 What did you say to His Imperial Highness?
Nothing but a merry word about Burke and Hare --
That's nothing for him to get upset about.  They're dead and buried --
 They killed his wee doggie too -- little Robbie. 
Come in!
Well, Fettes -- where have you been?  I didn't see you at the afternoon session.
I don't think I can go on, sir.
 What the devil do you mean?  You have your lodgings, a certain stipend -- I thought I had arranged everything for you --
I saw the woman whose son's body was delivered last night.
That man took the body from Greyfriar's.  I knew the woman. I knew the little dog on the grave. He killed the dog.
And that's why you don't want to be a doctor, Fettes?
Not if I have to be party to things like that, Dr. MacFarlane.
Fettes, I was an assistant once.  I had to deal with men like Gray.  Do you think I did it because I wanted to?  Do you think I want to do it now?  But I must and you must.
Ignorant men have dammed up the stream of medical progress with stupid and unjust laws.  If that dam will not break, the other men of medicine have to find other courses.  You understand me, Fettes?
But this woman -- and her son --
I'm sorry for the woman, Fettes. But her son might be alive today had more doctors been given the opportunity to work on more human specimens.  As for me, Fettes, I let no man stop me when I know I'm right -- when I know that I need those lifeless subjects for my student's enlightenment and for my own knowledge.  And if you're a real man and want to be a good doctor, you'll see it as I see it.
Well, boy?
You're a good lad, Fettes. (looking at Fettes more closely) But you look a bit pale to me.  I'm dining at Hobbs.  Come along with me and have a bit of the joint and a glass of ale.  It will put new life in you.
 We'll have a stiffener or two of hot rum and by then we will be able to meet this fellow on fairly equal terms of warmth, eh Fettes?
A fine "specimen" isn't he, Toddy MacFarlane?
Come, Toddy -- come.  Sit down here with me.
Don't call me that confounded name.
 Well, then, Doctor MacFarlane -- although I've known a time, Toddy, when you liked the name.  Aye, and many are dead now who called you by it; rough and wild ones they were, too.  But come Toddy, sit down here with your young friend.
 Mr. Fettes and I have professional matters to discuss.
Medicine?  That'll keep.  Sit down.
You wouldn't want it said of you that you refused a glass to an old friend.
We'll buy you a glass, Gray.
I'm a pretty bad fellow myself, but MacFarlane is the boy -- Toddy MacFarlane --
Come, Toddy, order for your friend.
No, on second thought, let me order.  We'll have a bowl of hot punch and a cut off the loin from that fine porker.
 You needn't worry, waiter, I'm with my friend -- the great Dr. MacFarlane -- he wants to sit here with the commonality.
 Well, you were going to talk of medical matters.  Don't let my humble presence stop you.  Speak up, Toddy.
I will not have you use that name to me.
You will not have it?
Dr. MacFarlane -- you remember the lady who came to see you yesterday -- the lady with the little girl?
I remember her.
She came again today.  She wanted me to ask you if you would not break your rule and operate.  She feels you are her only hope.
So she told me.  I'm a teacher -- not a practitioner.
You're a teacher, eh?  Maybe you're afraid to be a doctor, Toddy.
Afraid of what?
Afraid you are not as good a doctor perhaps as you make out to be.
I am the best man for the job.
Why don't you do it then?
I'd like you to do the operation, Toddy.
You?  Why?  Since when have you become the protector of little children?
I'm not concerned about the child, Toddy.  It's you I'm thinking of, I'd like to see you prove that a lot of things I know haven't hurt Toddy MacFarlane any.
I'll not do it, Gray.
Oh, yes, you will.  You'll do it to oblige Fettes and myself.
No.
Maybe there's some private reason between you and me which will make you -- some long lost friend of ours.  Say that you'll do it for me and my friend, Mr. Fettes, here.
 It might be an interesting case.
That's a good boy, Toddy.
You only want me to do it because I don't want to.  That's it, isn't it, Gray?
Toddy hates me.
 Don't call me that confounded name, I tell you.
Hear him?  Did you ever see the lads play knife?
He would like to do that all over my body.
 We medicals have a better way than that.  When we dislike a friend we dissect him.
You'll never get rid of me that way, Toddy.  You and I have two bodies -- aye, very different sorts of bodies -- but we're closer than if we were in the same skin -- for I saved that skin of yours once and you'll not forget it.
You have his promise, then?
Yes.
There will be great pain connected with it, ma'am.  During the operation and afterward -- great pain and shock --
 -- pain -- and shock.  She's brave enough, but I don't know about myself.  Now that it seems so close, I wonder if I dare trust my child into any but God's hands. Maybe He knows best.
Ma'am, is you'll allow me, I'd like to give you cause for courage -- Dr. MacFarlane is a great man -- I think he's the greatest man in medicine.  God would not have given him such gifts if they were not meant for Georgina's cure.
 Thank you, Mr. Fettes.
Mommie!  Mommie!
Push me to the wall, Mommie.  I think I hear him.
Hear him?
The white horse.  The horse that is going to greet me when he sees me.
 An old acquaintance, eh?
 It was a brown horse.
A cabby told her his horse would say "hello" to her the next time he saw her.  Georgina has been looking everywhere for that horse.
Why do you want the white horse to bid you "good-day"?
He was a nice horse.
Maybe there's another reason. Maybe you haven't friends enough. Could that be it, Georgina?
Of course -- I don't have friends. That's because I can't walk.  I try to make myself used to it.
One shouldn't get used to the wrong things, Georgina.  You want to walk and run and play.
 Really, Mr. Fettes -- I thought you at least would know how much Georgina wants that.
Aye, but I still wonder how much.
 I want it --
But you'll have to stand great pain, Georgina.  Greater pain than you ever dreamed of in the worst time of your sickness.  Do you want it that much?
Then, Dr. MacFarlane will make you well.
 Gray's head -- is that it, Teddy? Is that what broke just now under the poker.  Broken it -- and have done with him forever.
My poor lad -- my poor, poor lad that can never be free of him.
You're daft.  What's Gray to me. He's only a man from whom I buy what I need when I need it -- the rest is forgotten.
You may deny the devil, Toddy, but you'll not rid yourself of him by saying the devil is dead.
Nonsense.  You're a fey creature with mad ideas.  But you have a wildness that holds me to you, lass.
 No great lady will ever take my place?
Come in.
I didn't expect to see you on Sunday, Fettes.  What do you want, some powders for your aching head? That was a furious lot we drank last night -- and in bad company.
It was about last night I wanted to talk to you -- about the operation on the little Marsh girl.
 You're a man of the world, Fettes, you wouldn't hold me to promise given in drink.
But I -- well, you see, sir, I met Mrs. Marsh and told her.
 Really, Fettes, you irk me with your lack of understanding.
But you did promise.
Look here, Fettes.  Not I nor anyone else knows enough about the spinal column and its intricacies to insure success in such an operation.  I would have to study the matter.  Have we any "subjects"?
Wilmont used up the last spinal section.
You see, it is completely out of the question.
 Yes, I suppose so.
Now you run off and see that pretty Mrs. Marsh and explain to her.
Joseph --
Would you know a spinal column if you saw one?
Do we have one?
Joseph --
-- do you happen to know where Gray, the cabman, lives?
Well, tell me.
What do you want me to do, bribe you?  I'm cursed if I do.  Tell me straight out.  Where does he live?
I'd gladly run with a message, sir, for a florin.  It's not much, considering it's Sunday.
I only want his address.
He lives in the Westport --
 I'd gladly go.
Do you know where Mr. Gray lives -- Gray, the cabman?
Well, thanks anyhow.
Come in -- come in.
So it's the young doctor come to see me.  I'm honored -- honored --
Here, take this.  It is the most comfortable chair.
And to what do I owe this honor of this visit?  Some business, was it, of Dr. MacFarlane's?
Dr. MacFarlane didn't send me.  I came of my own accord.
What are the chances of your being able to get us a "subject"?
 It would be difficult -- very difficult.  There was a dog that bothered me during the last job -- people seem so concerned about dogs -- all in all it raised the very mother and father of a row.  I'm told the kirkyards are to be guarded.  But I would not like to say that it would be impossible to get a "subject".
 But how soon, man?  Dr. MacFarlane is engaged in some very urgent research at present.  He can't wait very long.
I fear he may have to.
But can't you give me any idea?
How could I?  I will do my best. After all, you see, I am financially interested.
You may tell Toddy that I will do what I can, when I can -- as he knows I will.  But he must wait and see as the children do.
If that's your answer -- it'll have to do.
Ah, Friend!  There's bad news for you, boy -- bad news --
We have to go out again, Friend.
 There, Master Fettes.  Sooner than we had expected.  A stoke of luck one might say.
Good.
That's the street singer.
 I know her, I tell you!  She was alive and hearty only this evening. It's impossible she can be dead.
You could not have gotten this body fairly.
You are entirely mistaken.
You had better give me my money and make the proper entry.
Good night, Dr. Fettes.
 Well, well, good morning to you, young Master Fettes.
Dr. MacFarlane, have you ever seen a street singer who sang "The Twa Corby"?
Every street singer with a cracked voice gives tongue to that one.
This girl was beautiful -- a wild lassie from the Highlands.
Beautiful, you say? It's a wonder I have not remarked her.
Oh, this girl.
She was murdered.
I went to see Gray last night.  I asked him to bring us a specimen. On my way I saw this girl.  I gave her alms money.  She was alive and singing.
Well --
Gray killed her.
We can't be sure of that.
I am sure.  I mean to report it. It's like Burke and Hare all over again.
 I wouldn't do that, Fettes.  I wouldn't report it.
Grave robbing is one thing -- this is murder.
I don't know that -- neither do you.  This subject may have been an epileptic -- thrown a fit -- fallen out of bed -- cracked her skull and killed herself -- there is everything explained -- the bruise on her head --
I can't believe that.
Believe it or not.  It's best for you to pretend that you do.  After all, it was you who ordered this specimen, received it here, and paid for it.  That makes you a party to murder.
But, I didn't ask him to kill.
Who would believe that?  And you know, someone else might recognize her.  She was as well known as the Castle Rock.
I should advise complete dissection.
I'll help you, of course.
I want the whole centrum myself for spinal work -- you know why --
 Have a drop -- it'll help.
I couldn't swallow it.
How long has it been?
Only twenty minutes.
 Only twenty minutes.
Here is where you must watch closely, gentleman -- closely -- it is the very heart of the matter --
Wait, Doctor -- wait!  The child's fainting.
Give her some brandy if you want.
She's unconscious.
Pulse?
Slow -- but not too alarming.
Let us proceed.
 -- and the final step -- we push the ganglia to one side -- then we make the actual osseous incision here -- so -- it is done -- the repair is effected and nothing left to do but replace the tissue and let nature heal what is no longer a defect -- merely a wound --
 Bravo!
 I'll be finished with her in an instant.  Then you can consider her your patient, Fettes.
Doctor --
What the devil is the matter with you -- forever creeping about. What do you want?
Mr. Gray --
I don't wish to see Mr. Gray.
You tell him that there will be no more business between us.
Oh -- well, Joseph, it seems I will have the pleasure of speaking to Mr. Gray myself.  You can go.
Now that wasn't a friendly thing I heard, Toddy.  Not at all friendly.
That has nothing to do with it. We've decided to do more lecturing and less dissection -- it's better for the students -- that's all there is to it.
 You know what you want and don't want -- so that's an end of business between us -- but we'll still be friends, Toddy.  I'll be dropping by to see you and Meg once in a while -- for auld lang syne, you know.
I suppose we can't prevent that, Gray --  -- for auld lang syne.
And do you think you're getting rid of me, Toddy?
I would like to speak to you.
I presume you shall.  This won't be my last visit here.
I want to speak to you alone.  I saw something.  I heard.
What did you hear?
I know --
Maybe some other time --
 Oh, you'll have ample opportunity -- ample --  Good morning, Dr. Fettes.
Good morning.
I just saw Gray.  What was he laughing at?
He has his own idea of a joke. Perhaps his horse tickled him in the ribs.
I've just been to see Mrs. Marsh. Georgina is doing splendidly.  The incision has healed -- clean and fine -- but she doesn't seem to have any desire to walk.
When she's ready you bring her to me -- I'll show her how.
Dr. MacFarlane, I wonder if you know what happiness you've brought those people.
That's only our duty, Fettes -- that's the end at which we aim with all this nasty business.
 I suppose one must pass through this purgatory to the heaven of being a good doctor.
 That's the way of it, Fettes.  You bring the lassie to me.
Don't you want to find the white horse, Georgina?  You can't find him from a wheelchair.  You have to walk and run to find him.
I can't.
 You can't -- can't!  Stop trying to bribe her with childishness about white horses. Let the child stand and walk -- her spine's all right.  I know it's all right.
But she must want to stand.  She must want to walk.
 Confound me, the child's a cripple, of course she wants to walk.  Child, I say to you get up out of that chair and walk.
 I ask you, child, to do a simple thing -- raise yourself with your hands to a standing posture -- then step out with your left foot -- try it.
I say, try it!  Lift yourself up now!
Good.  Now step out.
Step out!
I can't!  I can't!  My legs won't move.
 Nonsense!
I'm sorry, Doctor.  Georgina's a good child -- a brave child -- you saw how she was during the operation -- but if she can't move, she can't move.
But she must be able to move. Everything is in place.
 She would if she could.
Then all my surgery is no good. There's something wrong with the child -- something I don't know -- something I can't define -- can't diagnose.  I can do nothing for her.
You see Mrs. Marsh home, Fettes, I'm going to Hobbs'.  You can join me there if you like.
 Well, I'll be off -- unless you have a fare for me here -- some gentleman a little taken with wine.
Wait a bit and MacFarlane will be wanting to be freighted home.
The Doctor MacFarlane?
Aye. In the other room and getting stiffer than the bodies he demonstrates.
I'll look in on him.
Toddy --
 Oh, it's you, Gray. Well, come in. Sit down. Have a glass with me.
 You're uncommon friendly tonight, Toddy. More like the old days.
I want someone to talk to. That Fettes -- all taken up with the widow. He never came back here.
You know something about the human body, Gray.
I've had some experience.
Then you can understand that the backbone is a lot of little blocks and those little blocks are all held together, so that it works like that whip of yours. You know that, don't you?
I've never had it all explained that way to me by so learned a man.
 I set those blocks together, patched the muscles. I put the nerves where they should be -- I did it and I did it right -- and she won't walk --
 Oh, it's the bit of a girl Fettes was talking about.
 The same. Look here, Gray --
I fitted them together like this -- (he puts the two glasses together) -- so that it was right. Yet she won't walk.
You can't build life like you put together blocks, Toddy.
What are you talking about? I am an anatomist. I know the body. I know how it works.
And you're a fool, Toddy -- and no doctor. It's only the dead ones that you know.
I am a doctor. I teach medicine.
Like Knox taught you? Like I taught you? In cellars and graveyards? Did Knox teach you what makes the blood flow?
The heart pumps it.
Did he tell you how thoughts come and how they go and why things are remembered and forgot?
The nerve centers -- the brain --
But what makes a thought start?
 In the brain, I tell you. I know.
You don't know and you'll never know or understand, Toddy. Not from me or from Knox would you learn those things. Look --
Look at yourself, Toddy, could you be a doctor -- a healing man -- with the things those eyes have seen? There's a lot of knowledge in those eyes, but there's no understanding. You'd not get that from me.
I am a doctor - a good doctor. I could make her walk, but she won't - she won't --
 Here, have another glass, MacFarlane. I'll take you home and we'll be friends again -- now that you know that you're Knox's man and my friend -- aye, forever.
I'm my own man and I'll have no more to do with you, Gray.
Why should I be afraid of you? What are you holding over me?
I'll tell you what, Toddy. It's because I ran down the streets with the mud and the stones around my ears and the mob yelling for my blood. It's because you were afraid to face it -- and you're still afraid.
No, I'm not afraid. Tell! Shout it from the housetops!  And remember this -- they hanged Burke -- they mobbed Hare -- but Dr. Knox is living like a gentleman in London.
 Aye, Toddy, there is something in what you say.
There is much in what I say, Gray, and if you have any regard for your neck you'll leave now and stay away from my house, my school, and from me.
I have no wish for a rope cravat. I've never liked the smell of hemp, so I'll bid you good night, Doctor MacFarlane.
Ah -- Dr. MacFarlane's man -- A surprise visit, but come in -- come in.
You're welcome to my little nest, Joseph -- is it not? That's right -- you have something to say to  me -- something very private.
Yes.
Now that is very interesting --  Take a chair, Joseph,
 Can anyone hear what we say?
 Only Brother.
 I know that you kill people to sell bodies.
You say you've come here on your own account?  No one knows you are here?
Give me money or I'll tell the police you murder the "subjects."
Well, you shall have money, Joseph. Why should you not?
 I don't suppose the great Dr. MacFarlane is too free with his pay, is he?
Here -- have some of this.
 You want money and you shall have it.
Let me see -- five and five -- then in gold -- six all together. Shall we say sixteen pounds, Joseph?
I have made you give me money, but you smile. Aren't you angry?
No, Joseph. I'm not angry -- here -- another glass of brandy --I'll wager it's better than the doctor's.
Drink up, man!
I have an idea -- a splendid idea -- such an excellent idea that we must drink on it.
You see -- I admire you, Joseph. Coming here shows courage. I'm looking for such a man -- but -- drink, Joseph, drink..
You and I should work together.
You mean we would sell the bodies to the doctors together? Dig them up?
 No digging Joseph. The churchyards are too well guarded. We will "Burke" them,
 Burke them?
You are lately come to Scotland, Joseph?
I come from Lisbon.
But still you may have heard the peddlers of verse cry out their names on the streets.
"The ruffian dogs, the Hellish pair.  The villain Burke, the meager Hare --"
I never heard that song. But what did they do?
Eighteen persons they killed and sold the bodies to Dr. Knox at ten pounds for a large and eight pounds for a small. That's good business, Joseph.
But where did they get those people?
That was Hare's end. Ah, you should have seen him on the streets, when he saw some old beldam deep in drink how he cozened her!
"A good-day to you Madame Tosspot, and would you like a little glass of something before you take your rest? Come with me to my house and I'll make you my guest. You shall have quarts to drink if you like."  Ah, how he cozened them.
We could do that. But when he had them there, then what?
 "Nor did they handle axe or knife To take away their victim's life -- No sooner done than in a chest They crammed their lately welcome guest."
I don't understand the song. Tell me plain how they did it.
 I'll show you how it was done, Joseph. -- I'll show you how they "Burked" them.
No, put your hand down. How can I show you, man!
This is how they did it, Joseph.
You've no need to be so anxious, Meg, MacFarlane's been drunk and away before. He'll be home in good time. Meanwhile, you've got me to keep you company.
I'd call that no good fortune.
There was a time, lassie -- a time when I used to bring the dashing young doctor to your door -- when you didn't feel so uncommon cold to your old friend Gray.
Why must you be on him all the time? Why does it please you?
He's my friend. I like to see my friends -- I like to visit them --
Well, he's come home -- you've no excuse now to bear me company.
What are you going here? Have I not told you --
Would you grudge me a glass with my old crony, Meg?
Crony indeed!
You can get out.
I brought you something tonight, MacFarlane -- an interesting specimen -- in very good condition.
I've ordered nothing from you.
This is a gift.
I take no gifts from you.
This is a gift you'll not return.
Get out of here!
Wait, Toddy. That's not hospitable. I want to discuss business.
You are not to set foot in here again, Gray, for business or any other reason. And you're going out now!
 I wouldn't do it, Toddy. I wouldn't be rough handed.
If you were to throw me out, it might become known that when the great Dr. MacFarlane finds his anatomy school without "subjects" -- he provides them himself and from the midst of his own household ---
What the devil are you talking about?
Take a look downstairs. Toddy. Take a look.
Fettes -- where is Fettes?
I'll get him.
Fettes, were you down here when Gray came?
Bring that candle over here.
 -- a member of his household --
Fettes, the more things are wrong, the more we must act as if everything were right. You must do with Joseph as you did with, the street singer -- complete dissection -- a proper entry in the book --
No.
What do you mean, Fettes?
I'll have no more to do with it. I'll not put my neck into the noose, not even for your sake, Dr. MacFarlane.
Don't be a fool.  One can't begin and then stop -- and because that entry of the girl's body is in your hand, you'll do as I say. As for me, I'll tend to Gray.
You're not going to Gray.
He must leave me alone.
No!  No!
Come, Mistress Cameron -- this is no place for you. I'll help you upstairs.
You must leave this house.
I can't do that -- you heard MacFarlane.
Save yourself. Master Fettes look at MacFarlane and be warned.
He's a great doctor -- a great man --
Is it a great man whom Gray can order to his bidding? Is it a great man who for very shame dare not acknowledge his own wife so that I must play maidservant for the world's sake and his success?
He could have been a great man -- a good man and a fine doctor, but there was always the shame of the old life and the old ways to hold him back -- and always Gray -- Gray to hound him to his death.
You're over-excited, Mistress Cameron.
I'm cold as ice.
But Gray's only a cab driver -- a Resurrection Man who robs graves to make a bit of money now and again.
If he were only that. The man's evil himself. Some day you'll know him as MacFarlane knows him -- for MacFarlane he was to Knox as you are to him. That brought him close to Gray, he roistered with him and drank with him. Aye, and Gray even brought him to my door and my love. There is all that between them and more -- Burke and Hare and Knox --
But that's long since.  Gray can't threaten him with that.
Gray has no need to threaten. You remember the trial?
I heard my parents speak of it in Thrums. It was a famous case.
And did you hear them speak of the porter who testified against Burke?
Aye.
They did not tell you how that porter cried out in the witness box when the Kings Counselor pressed him hard -- how he cried out that he was shielding a gentleman of consequence.
That porter was Gray and the gentleman of consequence who couldn't swallow the shame of it -- who took my last paltry savings to hire Gray --
MacFarlane
Listen to me, Fettes, I'm one part befuddled with drink, one part over-heels in love with MacFarlane, and one part fey. You're a lowlander, Fettes, and you have no way of knowing what we Highlanders call the second sight.
I've heard of it.
It's a gift to my people -- and I see MacFarlane and Gray-- the pit yawns for them and the flames -- and I would have you away from them and safe out of the torment.--
 This is unexpected, Toddy.
 I wanted to see you. You weren't here -- so I waited.
 What do you want of me. Gray?
 Want of you, Toddy? I want nothing of you.
Gray, I must rid myself of you -- you've become a cancer -- a malignant, evil cancer -- rotting my mind.
 So, Toddy, you've made me a disease, eh?
 I can't understand your hurt to me -- but I must cut you out.
I will not leave here until I have finished with you. Gray. One way or another -- I must be sure that I am rid of you.
And if there is no other way --
Surely you are not threatening an old friend, Toddy.
We have never been friends.
Have another glass of something good, Toddy.
I've drunk enough tonight.
 Another little drop'll never do you any harm.
 Drink --
You're getting old, Gray, and it's a hard life driving a cab through these wet and windy streets of Edinburgh --
I have other means of sustenance.
The Resurrection business? That may end sooner than you think. New laws may come.
What I was going to say is this -- wouldn't you be more comfortable at Leith in a neat little house?
Would you bribe me to leave you be?
I would make you rich.
It wouldn't be half so much fun for me. Toddy, as to have you come here and beg --
 Beg -- beg of you! You crawling graveyard rat!
Aye -- that is my pleasure.
Well then -- I beg you -- I beseech you --
 But then I wouldn't have the fun of having you come here and beg again, Toddy.
But why, Gray? Why?
Because it would be a hurt to me to see you no more, Toddy. You're a pleasure to me.
A pleasure to torment me?
No -- a pride to know that I can force you to my will. I'm a small man -- a humble man -- and being poor, I've had to do much that I did not want to do. But so long as the great Dr. MacFarlane jumps at my whistle, that long am I a man -- and if I have not that, I have nothing. Then I am only a cabman and a grave-robber.
Let be, Toddy.  Let be. I have no wish to hurt you.
Stay, Toddy -- don't force me to kill you -- I have need of you -- the great need of my pride.
That's better Toddy. That's more reasonable,
Where is Fettes?
He's gone. I sent him away. I'll not see another boy harried and torn and made miserable like you, Toddy.
 You've been with Gray again.
Aye.
You'd better look at the face.
You'd, better.
I'm rid of him forever.
He'll not come here again -- sneaking and whining and bullying.
Now he'll serve a good purpose -- and tomorrow when the last bit of him is dissected, demonstrated and detailed in the students' notebooks, then at last there's an end to him.
 Then not a trace left -- rid of him forever.
You're not rid of him.
Good morning, Mrs. Marsh.
Good morning, Mr. Fettes.
I thought this was a school day.
I am not at the school anymore. I left last night.
Left Dr. MacFarlane?
 Play by yourself a little. I'd like' to speak to Mr. Fettes.
This is serious, Donald. What has happened?
It's not because of Georgina -- because of Dr. MacFarlane's failure?
It's not the failure. I feel that MacFarlane has taught me nothing. He taught me the mathematics of anatomy but he couldn't teach me the poetry of medicine.
That's why I don't want to go on. I feel MacFarlane had me on the wrong road --a road that led to knowledge but not to healing. If there had been any healing in the man, Georgina would be walking now.
Mommie! Mommie!
I think it was the pain of the operation more than anything else -- she's afraid that if she stands the pain will come again. Nothing Dr. MacFarlane could ever do would take that out of her mind.
Mommie!  Mommie!
Mommie -- the white horse -- I'm sure it's the white horse --
Even so, I could never think of going on -- I've got to find some other profession.
It is a pity.
Mommie! It was another horse.
You're standing, Georgina.
You'll not need that again, Georgina.
 I wanted to see the white horse --
 I've got to tell Dr. MacFarlane. I've got to tell him.
Mistress Cameron -- you'll not believe it, but the child has walked -- stood and walked. I must tell Dr. MacFarlane.
He's not home.
Where can I find him?
You don't went to find him. Your news will keep until I tell him.
But I must tell him -- he must know of it. Please -- tell me where he is.
There's no standing between a fool and his folly. If you must babble your news to him he's at the Fisherman's Tryst. It's the inn at Pennycuik. You can use MacFarlane's horse and gig to get there. He'll welcome the ride back.
 At Pennycuik.  I know the inn.  I can be there in an hour.
 And back with MacFarlane and all that he stands for the next day.
A sound horse and a closed carriage -- and after I'd talked with him a bit I had his price down to four pounds and then.
And worth every bit or ten pounds.
Surely, Angus, a man who had won so great a victory in a horse deal would buy the poor loser a drink.
 Take him a pot of ale.
Ale for a Gentleman? It's only French brandy he'd be drinking, and that will be two more shillings, Angus.
The man who bought your horse would like you to have a glass of French brandy at his charge.
Now that's very civil of him.
Doctor -- the little Marsh girl stood and walked -- really stood and walked --
What's that you say?
The little girl -- she couldn't walk far -- the muscles are too weak -- but she did stand and she took a step or two.
 I know it -- I know it -- The moment I was rid of him --
What?
Gray -- I'm rid of him --
 Just that -- just that -- I've managed to get him to leave Edinburgh -- he'll bother me no more.
Drink.
Here's to a good riddance.
Now that he's gone I'll be a new man, Fettes, and a better teacher. The doctors from my school will perform miracles --
Sh-h-h! Still your song, lads -- the MacCreadys are here and they've come from burying the old woman in Glencorse Kirkyard.
See that, Fettes?
A burial party -- poor people -- it's hard to bury a loved one on a rainy day when the churchyard is so cold and lonely.
Glencorse -- that's a lonely cemetery, Fettes, not a soul around for miles.
They'll be thinking of that, too.
Tosh!  Fettes!  It's not their grief I'm worrying about -- I'm talking of our own end --
You've no thought of going there?
Did you think Gray was the only one who could handle a mattock and shovel?  I've had some practice in the art.
 You couldn't do that, Doctor.
 I pass up no opportunities, I've a whole course of lectures in mind for you fellows.  We'll need subjects to demonstrate. Come along.
No.
Why not? I must have subjects. It's the only way I can teach. It's the only way you can learn. The stupidity of the people the idiocy of their laws will not stop no -- nor will they force me to deal with such reptilian creatures as Gray. We can do our own dirty work -- and we must.
 So we can't do without Mister Gray - So I'd never be rid of him, eh?
A-ah!
 Where shall we put it? In the back?
No room there. We'll have to set it between us.
 Keep it off me, will you!
 What's got into this animal!
Keep it off me!
 Keep it off me, I say!
You'll not get rid of me that way -- that way -- that way -- that way --
 Fettes -- for Mercy's sake, let's have a light!
All right.
It's changed!  I swear it! It's changed, Fettes!
Changed? Changed, to what?
Let's have that lamp.
 This is not a woman!
 It was a woman when we put her in.
 Hold that lamp up -- I must see her face.
Dr. MacFarlane?
Gray -- Gray --
