I was 25 years old the first time I died...
I remember there was so much white everywhere. And I felt peace...even though there was war around me. And I felt alive, even though I knew I was dead.
Come on, come on, let's tag these guys and get them out of here.
Wait, so how old?
[Searching through records] Here he is. William Starks. Born in Vermont. He hasn't got a family listed. The naval hospital'll figure out what to do with him.
He's been tagged already. Worry about the others... [then seeing STARKS blink] Oh shit! Shit! CODE BLUE! We need a doctor! Get a doctor over here now!
The level of arms on the ground really depends. [Answering a question] But no, I'd have to say we haven't had to engage on the ground as heavily as we might have expected.
Have you lost any men today, Captain?
No. One of my Corporals took a bullet to the head, but it looks like he might make it. Looks that way...
Sergeant Starks was very lucky. A little more to the right and it wouldn't have wanted to come out...
It's hard to say. Sergeant Starks could have retrograde amnesia or... [lowering his voice] any form of psychological suppression. It's very common with traumas like this.
Captain Medley has recommended you for the Purple Heart, Sergeant.
Can I have one of those?
Of course.
There is help for you, Sergeant.
Of course there is. Their VOICES start to fade as STARKS smokes his cigarette, blowing the SMOKE upwards and following it with his eyes. He's finished with these men and everything they stand for.
I didn't know where my home was. I just knew I didn't want to be there anymore.
Come on, mom. Don't fall asleep...
You two ok?
Our car won't start.
Jean.
Jean? Jean, can you hear me? I need you to try to wake up, Jean.
Your mom take anything before this happened?
Yeah, but I don't know what.
[Beat] What's your name?
Jackie.
Nice to meet you, Jackie. Why don't you wrap this scarf around yourself and try to keep your mom awake while I take a look at your car.
What do you think of all this snow?
[Beat] Nothing.
But I like it I guess.
Hey, can you reach the gas pedal?
Yeah.
Go ahead, turn it on. Keep pushing it.
It works!
Get your fucking hands off my daughter!
Mom, he just fixed our car.
Jackie, get in the car. NOW!
Look, I don't want any trouble, so...
Neither do I, ma'am. I'll be on my way.
Mom, you've got it wrong...
You're just gonna walk?
Yeah, I'll hitch a ride or something. [Beat] Let her throw it all up before she gets back behind the wheel.
What're those?
Dog tags. [Off her blank look] They've got your name and date of birth for identification.
What for?
[Beat] In case you get lost, or can't remember who you are.
I think I can remember what's on them.
William Starks. [Beat] Thanks.
Are you aware we have no last name, no place of residence, and no record of any physical presence for these "friends" of yours? How's that possible in this day and age?
I may need to actually hear that answer, Mr. Starks.
[Beat] Yes. With Starks' answer, the background of the courtroom is suddenly illuminated and we see that THIS IS STARKS' OWN TRIAL. The VOICE belongs to a satisfied PROSECUTION who turns to face a medium-sized CROWD watching on...
William Starks could be blocking the incident. It would explain his well- systematized scheme about the little girl and her mother. A delusion as complex as that can often replace the reality of an incident like this.
I have heard of Gulf War Syndrome. The medical community is only beginning to gather information about it.
Gulf War   Syndrome? What the...Why don't we   start diagnosing Hard Life Syndrome   while we're at it? I've gotten a   lot of convictions we could overturn   with that logic...
Sergeant Starks was awarded the Purple Heart. That award doesn't applaud violence or murder. [Beat] It applauds honor.
It's not a question of whether or not he was sane when he did it?! He absolutely was. Three bullets in one man are three moral failings in another.
For God's sake, my client said he thinks he's already died once. He doesn't know what's going on.
On the count of first degree murder, we find the defendant, William Starks, not guilty by reason of insanity.
I hereby sentence you to be committed to a facility for the criminally insane, where I hope that doctors and the proper treatment can help you...
Mr. Starks, I hope that someday you might be well so that we will have lost only one life in this tragedy.
How'd he dodge a conviction?
[Beat] So why isn't he just in the psych ward of the county jail?
William? William, can you hear me?
I've given you some drugs to help with your adjustment...
Well, your condition's pretty serious.
[Beat] So they say. [Off Becker's steady gaze] What?
I'm just looking at you. Does that make you uncomfortable?
Depends on what you're seeing.
You said you couldn't remember killing Officer Harrison. Correct?
[Beat] You don't believe me, do you?
It's not my job to believe you.
Lucky me.
You shot a man three times: first in his heart, then in his stomach and then...point blank, in the back of his head. And then you just...forgot all about it. A whole life erased with three easy little words: I. Don't. Know. What would it be if we could all not know what we didn't want to have to face.
I don't belong here. I don't...
I'm sorry. I didn't mean... I'm sorry. I didn't mean it.
It's ok, Harold. It's ok.
Come on, army boy. Time for some therapy.
Wait. Wait a minute... Please.
I, I don't belong here.
No. I don't think you do either. [Beat] But neither of us can do anything about that. BECKER barely nods and STARKS is trussed in the JACKET with METAL CLAMPS. BECKER writes some details down, presumably about Starks' treatment.
Take him out of it.
William. William, can you hear me?
That's not enough, is it?
That's Kingsley. Old bastard hears us, I'm sure. He just doesn't want to bother answering so he makes us think he can't talk. I know. I tried it on my mother for two months once before she fished out my tongue. Literally. [Beat] You're the cop killer, right?
Yeah, guess so. How'd you know?
TV. Helps numb [makes a "crazy gesture"] any active mind. [Sticking out a jittery hand] Rudy MacKenzie.
Welcome to the village, William Starks.
That's too bad. I don't believe in disposable language either -- you know, the small talk, the little talk. Chit. Chat. Useless. The game's something else though. Think about it: What can we trade with each other in the air between us? This... [running his hand through the air] is our court. [Beat, so eager it's sad] I'm ready to throw the ball. Come on.
What are you in here for?
I tried to kill my wife.
Don't you go to jail for that?
I tried something like 30 times. There is, as STARKS rightly figures, no suitable response to that.
She's bigger than me, and she's stronger than me. And I never planned on doing it. It was always in the heat of the moment. I didn't beat her or anything. Hell, she beat me. But when we'd start fighting, I'd go for the knife. Then she kept threatening to have me put away, and [looking around] she finally did.
Yeah, well 30 times probably would make you seem crazy.
Or just plain stupid. You'd think by the twentieth time, I'd have found an alternative method. Maybe a more effective one, if you know what I mean.
Morning, gentlemen. How are you doing today?
It's a hard one for me, Dr. Lorenson. [Finally turns to face her, grimly] The world around me, it's shrinking. There's not even room for light to make its way in. [Beat] Da-da-bum! Da- da-bum! I feel like the horseman of doom is coming for me, Doc. Only today, he's not carrying flowers.
What? It's better than fine.
And you, Mr. Starks?
Mr. MacKenzie, do you think I could talk to Mr. Starks privately?
Of course you can, Doc. William, it was an absolute pleasure. Thanks for playing.
Hey...when they talk you out to the woods tonight and invite the wolves, dance with them. [Beat] They don't eat you when there's music playing.
So you're ok?
I asked you if you're ok.
I don't know. You tell me, Doc. You think there's anything wrong with me?
I don't know. You're not my patient.
You look like you've lost some weight. Are you eating?
I am. One of the few things I remember doing is eating. So I guess I must be exercising it off in my dreams.
You done with your small talk?
Sure.
Good.
I'm sorry, Starks. Must have not seen you coming there.
You gonna get the fuck up?
I'm glad to see you're cooperating this time, Mr. Starks.
Hold him while I get the tranquilizer.
Fuck the tranquilizer! I got a foot.
No. That's not necessary.
Let him go. [More firmly] I said, let him go!
The only thing your mind is missing is a conscience.
Wait...Dr. Becker, how long do you want us to leave him in for?
Just strap him in for now.
You ok?
I'm fine.
[Beat] Listen, I hate to bother you...
Then don't.
But... what about Starks?
What about Starks?
Should we be...
Should we be what? Trying to change him any way we can? [Beat] Yes.
But the Jacket? I mean...should we be leaving him in like that?
I'm not looking for anything.
[Beat] It's Christmas Eve, Justin. Don't you have somewhere to be?
Ah, man, look, It's A Wonderful Life.
You got any booze?
'Course I do. [Smiling] And it is the season for giving so let's get to it.
When they take you out to the woods tonight and invite the wolves, dance with them.
They don't eat you when there's music playing.
Where do you think you're going?
You gonna answer me?
If you're deaf, read my lips...I don't need a psycho following me today.
[Beat] I'm not deaf.
Good.
[As if she owes him an explanation] I forgot my purse.
In case you hadn't figured, it's Christmas Eve. You're never gonna get a cab here.
[Beat] Thanks.
All right. [Beat] You got somewhere you need to go, Mister?
I'm not sure.
Let me ask you that again. This time, look around and consider your options.
[Beat] You got somewhere you need to go, Mister?
Great, get in.
So, where do you want me to drop you?
I'm not sure.
You don't have anywhere to stay?
I don't think so.
Well, where are you from?
I'm not sure. [Beat] I don't really know.
Of course you don't know.
Why "of course"?
Because in my life, it wouldn't make sense for me to pick up some normal guy with a place where he's from and a place where he's going to. It'd be too simple. I probably wouldn't know how to handle a situation like that.
Well, you definitely didn't pick normal or simple this time either.
At least you're honest. That's some kind of start.
That's great. You're not sure where you're from or where you're going, but at least you've got manners.
Well, you got a coat or something?
Well, how'd you get here?
[Beat] I was dropped off.
Do you have a motel or something? Money?
No.
Well, don't you somewhere? Stuff? Belongings?
No. [Beat] Not around here.
All right, we'll get to my place and call around, see where I can take you. [Beat] Just don't think of trying anything.
I have the biggest defense for gun control living upstairs from me. She's armed and angry even when she's asleep.
Great. That was our last option. What am I going to do with you?
Nothing. [Getting up] Thanks for bringing me this far.
Where are you going? You'll freeze out there. You don't even have a coat.
I'll manage.
No, you won't. You'll die of cold out there and then I'll have to feel guilty. And I've already got more guilt than I know what to do with. [Beat] Do you want something to drink?
No, I'm ok.
Shit! That was one of my good glasses!
[Beat] Yeah, I'm fine.
You know what? It's Christmas Eve. And you look clean -- I mean, you're normal-looking. [Resolutely, for her own benefit] It's Christmas Eve, and I have a couch.
I'm not gonna hurt you.
I know. [Clearing her throat] I'm gonna go take a bath. Make yourself at home. You know, fix yourself something to eat if you're hungry or anything. There's nothing to steal, but don't be a jerk and take something anyway. And don't snoop, ok?
Ok. [Beat] My name's William by the way.
What's this?
The best I could do with what was in your fridge.
I only lit it because it was so cold in here. I'm sorry if...
No, it's fine. [Beat, swallow] Thanks.
You want a drink?
Sure.
This is pretty good. Considering...
Thanks.
So you're a waitress, right? I mean...from the uniform you were wearing.
Yup. That's me.
You like it?
[Beat] I do it.
Have you always been a waitress?
[Beat] Why'd you stop?
Shit happens, and your life changes. 'Bout the best explanation of a lot of things that happen. [Beat] So how come you don't know where you're coming from?
I don't know, but I think part of it's...
That I don't really know what's real.
Well, good for you.
[Beat] Why?
[Beat] Real is overrated.
You don't think that's crazy?
Maybe. [Beat] Maybe not.
Sometimes I don't know the difference myself. And, you know something? I think I like it better that way. [Finishes her drink] You want another one?
If you go when the snow flakes storm When the rivers freeze and summer ends. Please see she has a coat so warm To keep her from the howlin' winds...
This is a great song.
You remember it?
But hey, who can forget those words? The man just wants simple and good things for his woman -- that she be warm and happy. How hard can that be to remember?
May be easy to remember, but not easy to get. Being warm, maybe -- but, look, you don't even have a coat and I still have to chop wood to make a fire. [Beat] And, being happy...you tell me if that's simple.
They told me I joined the army when I was seventeen. That's when my father died and, before that, it was apparently just me and him since I was born 'cause my mom split.
So you never knew your mother?
I guess not. But, as of now, I never knew either.
I'm sorry.
Yeah. [Beat] How about you?
Never knew my father. I grew up with my mother. Actually, I grew up around my mother. She was great though. I mean, the way she was with her friends... She was this woman who had so much life in her, she had to find ways to kill some of it just to be like the rest of us. [Beat] She died young.
How?
She fucked herself up day after day and then, one day, she fell asleep with a burning cigarette. [Beat] I came home from work and she was gone.
I'm sorry.
Yeah, me too. [Softly] Every day for the last ten years.
That when you stopped being a nurse?
Yeah, that's when I stopped being a nurse. I never thought I could stop being one, I wanted it for so long, but... you just can't do it anymore when you lose someone like that. You can't take care of other people.
STARKS' EYES search the room for ANYTHING that could help him figure out what's happening. On the console is an OLD PAPER and some MAIL. Totally disoriented, STARKS nearly STUMBLES on his way to the PILE.
William, can you hear me?
Jackie? Jackie?
Hm...
What year is it?
Who are you?
[Beat] I'm William Starks.
Get the hell out of my house!
What'd you do? Snoop all over the place? You had no right. You had no right to go through anything.
[Beat] I know it doesn't make sense. It doesn't even make sense to me.
If you don't get out of my house right now, I'll call the police.
Your mom was passed out on the side of the road when I found you. Her name was Jean. [Beat] She was dizzy the whole time...
Why would you do something like this? I tried to help you.
Jackie, I'm William Starks. I can prove it.
What? Now you're gonna show me some kind of driver's license?
No, I don't have anything to show you. I'm here from a mental hospital.
Well, you belong in one.
[Beat] You and your mom were in a truck and she kept a rifle in the back of it...
Stop it! Stop it! JACKIE covers her ears and looks at him, pleading with her eyes. STARKS' eyes plead right back.
I'm sorry for upsetting you, [beat] but I'm not lying to you.
You can't be William Starks. He's dead.
[Beat] What?
William Starks is dead... [Beat] I've been to his grave.
[Beat] What?
His body was found New Year's Day, 19...1993. At Alpine...
I looked it up.
How?
I gave you my dog tags.
No, you didn't. They found William Starks' body dead in the snow.
How'd he die?
I don't know. But he did die. STARKS falters under the news. JACKIE looks around, through her now blurred eyes, like she might find some help in the apartment. She settles for the BOTTLE of VODKA on the table, lowers the iron fork and takes a long heavy drink, then laughs nervously as she looks up.
I know what this is...I picked you up when I was drunk and you probably thought I'm just fucked up enough to fall for this. But the thing is I know what I'm doing when I drink. I just usually don't care. Right now, I do though. And I want you out. Now.
It's December 25th, 1993 today.
No, it's not. [Beat] It's December 25th, 2004.
That can't be. That's...just, I mean... You're telling me I died in less than a week in the time I'm in.
I'm telling you I don't care what time you think you're in. You're not William Starks. [Beat] I don't believe in many things, but I believe in death. And it doesn't give back what it takes. So whoever you are...I did a nice thing, you've made me regret it enough already, so please, just leave.
I'll leave. But look at me. Look at my face, Jackie. I'm not lying. I met you and your mother. I told you then that I'd lost my memory. [Beat] There was no one for miles around so I know you know there's no way I could have known that from a pair of dog tags you had lying around.
Please...
Happy Birthday.
You walk on. They pick up their guns and fire at you, you stay. They pick up and fire at each other, and you walk on!
He's got his gun pointed at a kid.
That is not our problem.
Yeah, well, none of this is our fuckin' problem.
We are leaving this site right now.
You left him in all night?
Shit, he's probably dead.
Don't get all worked up, Justin. I expected some common sense on your part and clearly I was expecting too much. [Beat] Just open the drawer.
We never should have done this to him...
Well, what are we gonna do about it now?
Is he? [Impatiently] Is he dead?
No. [To Harding and Damon] Get him upstairs.
Where's William Starks.
I'm not sure. Dr. Becker had him moved.
He's recovering on the third floor.
Are you kidding me? He's not psychotic!
Then how would you describe him, Beth? Merely rebellious?
He'll be a zombie in a few days, Tom. His behavior's hardly suggested he needed neuroleptics.
And you know that from what, a couple two-minute stares across a room?
He didn't need anti-psychotics, if that's even all you're giving him...?
After he slashed me with a hospital instrument, I determined, in my professional opinion, that Mr. Starks, needed a little placating.
[Beat] You sure he wasn't provoked?
You sure you want to begin making that kind of insinuation? [Beat] I took five stitches during a routine therapy session.
I'm sure he took some, too.
Yes, they are.
He's not gonna end up like Casey, Tom. Whatever happened to him is not going to "happen" to Starks. I don't know what you're trying to do here ...but he's not a lab animal, Tom. You can't reprogram him no matter the drugs or the treatment.
Jesus, you really don't let up, do you? Just because you failed your patient doesn't necessarily mean the rest of us did, too. [Beat] Sorry to tarnish your war hero's image, but he is psychotic.
Now, if you'll excuse me, it's Christmas, and I have a family I'd like to see.
Hi, Claire.
Jackie, hi. How are you, honey?
I'm ok. [Beat] I need a favor.
What the hell kind of drugs are you people giving me?
Just something to help you sleep.
I said the drugs were to help you sleep. [Beat] Did you sleep well?
But I wasn't asleep. Was I?
Yes. You were. You were asleep for nearly a whole day. It's December 26th, William.
It's December 26th?
That's right, William.
Yes. [Caustically] And that's the sun and you're on earth. [Beat] And I know you know better.
I don't know better. All I know is that you left me in there.
In where?
[Uncertainly] In that thing...the Jacket.
We were forced to use restrains if that's what you're referring to.
That wasn't a fucking restraint.
Actually, that's exactly what our equipment is.
Relax.
Don't act like I don't know what's real. [Beat] I'm not the one that's crazy here.
[Pointedly] Of course you're not.
You're just suffering from delusions that are unfortunately part of your condition.
Don't give me that. I know what's real, goddamnit! You strapped me in something and stuck me in a drawer.
I didn't dream it. I may have been asleep but it wasn't a dream. BECKER sits down in a CHAIR, half-shrouded in the light.
I had a patient a few years ago. His name was Ted Casey...
I don't give a shit about your patient!
I wasn't pausing to see if you did. [Beat] But, incidentally, you should, because you're birds of a feather.
Ted raped and sodomized a seven-year old girl. [Beat] His lawyers asked me to have a look at him because, after his deeds were done... he climbed into the trees of the forest where he killed her and woofed like a dog. He couldn't even remember his name when I spoke to him, but, curiously enough, he could speak back. [Beat] Ted never went to prison because everyone -- including me -- was convinced he was sick. So he came here.
Then one day a little girl came with her mother to visit a relative and I caught Ted stealing looks at her -- the kind you really have to steal if you know what I mean. [Beat] I asked Ted then if he could remember what the little girl who he had... slain ...was wearing. [Beat] He gave me a look I'll never forget, and, when he answered, it wasn't with a color or any sort of physical description I'd expect. "Oh yes," he said. "I remember it. I remember it well." [Beat] Those were actually his last words I think.
We are not birds of a feather.
Maybe not. [Beat] But I do think you're in a tree... woofing like a dog. And I'm just trying to help you the only way I can think of.
What happened to your cheek, Dr. Becker?
I was careless. Happens sometimes.
They found William Starks' body dead in the snow.
How'd he die?
I don't know. But he did die.
Hey. You're not supposed to be out here. STARKS stiffens as he realizes he could be in the place where his body was found. The terrible question asks itself on his face: Is this when Starks is killed?
Well...
I thought I'd just ask you to come back inside with me.
And if I didn't want to come?
I guess I'd ask you why.
Because I don't think I'm crazy.
You're not crazy.
You suffer from delusional disorder. That doesn't mean you're... crazy. It just means you're confused. And you're here, instead of in jail, because that was determined to have played a role in your killing of a police officer.
You were convicted of the crime.
That conviction doesn't convince me of anything. Until I know that I did it, I'm not going to accept that I did.
You may never remember at all. [Beat] Your mind's grasp of reality and the real events that have happened to you has been damaged.
No. The real events that have happened to me have been fucked up. Not my mind.
[Beat] William, I'd like to ask you something if I can.
Since when do people around here have to ask permission to do anything?
How's your treatment progressing with Dr. Becker?
Fine. [Beat] Why made you ask?
I just hope you'd let me know if that wasn't the case.
Why, what would you do?
I could try to...make it stop.
No. I don't want it to.
So it's helping?
You comin'?
You should be careful. You could be killed if they found you out here.
Believe me, I know.
What were you talking about the other day?
I wasn't talking about anything.
Yeah, you were. What you said about them taking me out to the woods...
What do you know about the Jacket?
I know you need one when it's really cold.
[Cutting in] MacKenzie, listen to me. Listen. I'm going to die.
Mortality's actually a great thing to be familiar with. It means you're sane on some level.
[Gravely] No, I mean in four days, I'm supposed to die.
[Beat] How do you know?
The Jacket.
Oh no, you're pretty young. Your body'll be able to handle a lot more of it than you think...
No. [Beat] I mean I found out while I was in it that my body's gonna be found in four days.
What are you two yappin' about?
Yeah, it is.
You know something? You're two fucking freaks is what you are.
Well, no shit, Einstein. What do you think we're doing in this place?
It's gonna be sticky.
Why?
'Cause Lorenson's got her claws in it now. When she started getting suspicious about me was when they stopped using it on me. Women!
So what am I supposed to do?
You could still always give Becker an itch. 'Course you might get killed when he goes to scratch it, but seems to me you're saying that's about to happen anyway. [Beat] Just be careful not to walk yourself right into something.
We're late.
I wish they'd skip the formality of this annual review and just cut our budget. Our silence on the matter should be enough to appease the civic conscience without wasting an hour we don't have.
Maybe it's not such a waste.
It's the ticking of a box on a sheet of paper no one cares about.
They don't care about all the things we do right. [Beat] But they might ...they might care about what we're doing wrong. [Beat] That's what they should come here to look for.
What should they be looking for?
They should just be looking harder.
Where? [Beat] It's Becker isn't it? He's doing stuff, isn't he?
Later. I'll tell you about it later. We got a session to catch now.
Are you ok?
Yeah, Why are you in this ward alone? Where is everyone?
There's a state rep visiting so they've moved everyone around. But I've been alone before...
Where are the other orderlies?
In the therapy session downstairs. That's what the rep's sitting in on...
Ok, listen. I want you to get out of here and lock the door behind you. I'll go get some doctors.
Mr. Starks, this session is for our civil patients. Damon, please take Mr. Starks back to his ward. STARKS cuts him off and threatens with his gaze.
No. Please, Dr. Becker. You can strap me in a Jacket or even gag me, but please don't leave me out of therapy. This is where I feel like I make the most progress.
Fine, Mr. Starks. You can pull up a chair for yourself.
Mr. Jensen, please continue.
Well, [beat] I've been approached by the Federal Trade Organization.
They want me to head the Organization for the Organized.
The Organization...for the Organized?
That's right. Have you heard of them?
No, Mr. Jensen. I have not.
That is categorically not true. Bl-bl- blatantly and manifestly NOT TRUE. I've been asked to lead them. But, if you'd heard of them, then they wouldn't be hush-hush, would they?
What do the rest of you think?
And how is that?
When I was in the Gulf, the Organization was recruiting the Organized.
Is that a fact, Mr. Starks? Because if it's not, it doesn't help Mr. Jensen.
I knew it! I knew it! Those little fuckers are everywhere.
They recruit only the best, Mr. Jensen. [Beat] I didn't want to have to say this...
But these people [pointing to the Doctors] know about it. In fact, when Presidents of this country and heads of state leave office, they come here, to Alpine Grove. They're among us right now! [Looking right at Becker] Isn't that right, Dr. Thatcher? And Jensen, I'm proud they picked you.
They're always ordering us to stay calm, but how can we be calm?
[Looking suddenly directly at Becker] All they do is give orders. That's all they have to do. And no one will ever know. All it comes down to is an order. [Beat] They've got hands everywhere.
Long live the Organization for the Organized!
Sit down, Mr. Starks! Sit down, Mr. Starks!
Sit down, Mr. Jensen!
Dr. Thatcher! Dr. Becker!
You ever been to jail?
No.
It's worse than war. It's worse than anywhere you've ever been.
I doubt it. [Beat] I don't think prison's so bad you don't want to remember it...
Well, I've never been to war, but I'm sure as hell not going back to prison.
Gentlemen, I'm gonna need you to step out of the car, with your hands at your side please.
Why?
Ok, sir. I was just asking what for.
This is a stolen vehicle you're driving. Now put your hands in the air, out where I can see 'em.
Jesus Christ, what'd you do that for?
Man, if you're so deaf and dumb, you ain't even worth a fucking bullet.
I'll be off in 15 minutes. Can you wait till then?
The Jacket. That's what they call it, right?
Yeah.
It was banned, you know... and it led to an investigation of Dr. Becker's mistreatment of some of his patients. That's when they found out how badly he was drugging his patients...
Apparently. He was taking a lot of them, too. It said he was trying out behavior modification treatments that were banned back in the 70s -- "womb treatment" is the name he gave to what he did to you...
But no one knew until after...
After I...
[Beat] You bled to death.
What?
I don't know how you got the cut to your head, but you died bleeding from it.
And you're sure my body was found on January 1st?
Do you really believe me?
I don't know. [Beat] I thought I was crazy after you left that day. I died. I still think I could be crazy. But then I replayed that night in my head -- the parts of it I could remember -- and it was like...I don't care if I was, or am. I haven't felt that way in a room with someone my whole life. [Beat] And when you left, all I wanted was...
[Softly] I want to trust you. Should I trust you?
Yes.
Then we need to figure out what happened to you. It's the only thing we can do.
I know.
Alpine Grove still exists. I looked it up on the net. We should go there and see if there's still anyone around who might have known what happened to you.
If they don't take me out before then. [As an afterthought] What's the net?
I didn't kill Officer Harrison.
I know.
How? Did they figure it out after I died?
No. They never figured it out. I did. Most murderers don't stop to help a drunk woman and her little girl on the side of the road. Not without hurting them.
I'm sorry I can't tell you more about your father's death, Mr. Starks. Our own medical examiners determined only that he died from a blunt trauma to the head but that was right around the time the Alpine Grove's staff changed and I'm afraid we didn't have the best record system before then.
His body was found on January 1, 1993, but do you know if that was long after he had died?
No, I don't. I'm sorry. I wish I knew more.
What about Dr. Thomas Becker or Dr. Loel Lorenson? There was also a Dr. Gries, I think.
Well, Dr. Lorenson is still here at the hospital. If she was here at the time your father was, then I'm sure she'd be of more help to you.
What about Dr. Becker and Mr. Gries?
Unfortunately, I'm not familiar with Dr. Becker and Dr. Gries passed away three, four years ago.
Do you have any kind of forwarding address for Dr. Becker?
Your father was here 12 years ago. I doubt the hospital would have that, if Dr. Becker is still even alive. [Beat, a little suspiciously] Is there a particular reason you need to know how your father died?
He was the only family I remember.
Hello. I'm Beth Lorenson.
It's nice to meet you, Mr. Starks...
And you are...?
I'm just William's friend.
I think we'll be fine from here. Thanks, Stanley.
My God you look exactly like him.
I never knew my father. Did you?
Yeah, I did. [Beat] He was my most memorable patient.
Why?
At the end, he made me change my mind about a lot of things.
You thought my father was crazy?
No. I don't think he was crazy. He needed help...but he wasn't crazy. [Beat] Your father actually helped me with a case of mine.
What case?
I was working with a boy named Eugene.
Who was Eugene?
He was a friend's son. [Beat] Are you familiar with the case?
Just a little, when we were looking up information about William's father. How did he help?
It's complicated, but [looking at Starks] in a way, your father let me know how I'd get through to him.
How?
He just said...that I'd shock Eugene and then things would change for him.
I don't understand.
I still don't either, even after all these years.
Do you know how my father died?
I don't know how much I remember but I seem to think it was from a... cut or blow of some sort or another.
How'd he get it?
[Beat] I don't know.
But Dr. Morgan said you were around when my father was...
I was. But I saw a lot of cuts and a lot of blows. I'm sorry I don't know more about your father's. [Sincerely] I didn't know about everything that went on here.
Well, do you think Dr. Becker would have any idea?
How do you know about Dr. Becker?
My dad wrote some things down before he died.
That's right. He did.
So maybe Dr. Becker would know. [Beat] But, as I'm sure you know, the statute of limitations has run out for charging the hospital with any liabilities.
Why would we do that?
Because Becker resigned after the charges brought against him by State Patient Advocacy Groups.
I see you've done your homework. [Beat] Alpine Grove's undergone a lot of changes since then. At the time, we didn't have the...resources to help our patients the way we needed to. [Beat] Now, we do. And things are different.
I wouldn't be so sure. Like you said about back then, you might not know everything going on around here.
It's important for you to know who your father was, isn't it?
[Beat] Yeah, it is.
It's almost as if your life depended on it. Isn't it?
Exactly.
Well... [beat] let me know how your search turns out.
[Beat] We will.
I don't believe a thing she just said.
Me neither. Who was the boy she was talking about, Eugene?
I have no idea.
You think Lorenson kills you?
Maybe. I don't know. Seems more likely Becker does, but at the very least she knows how I died.
Let's see if they have an address for Becker. I also want to figure out more about the kid you helped her with.
Why?
Because that's the part I believe is true. You probably did help her somehow with the boy and Eugene's name did come up over and over again on the abstracts I pulled.
[Beat] There's one more thing I want to see.
This was the room. They used to hang the Jacket there. [Turning to Jackie] This is where it happened. This is the room I'm actually in right now.
I can show you. It's probably in there.
Maybe this wasn't such a good idea...
Yes, it was. [Softly] My fingers were the only things I could move. [Beat] Dead bodies don't bleed. And they certainly can't claw so hard they dent metal.
You folks ain't supposed to be down here.
We were just leaving.
Do I know you from somewhere?
You may have known my father, William Starks.
That's right! Goddamn, you're the spitting image. I didn't know he had a son.
He didn't either.
Did you know my father?
Oh yeah, sure. He killed a cop, right?
You wouldn't happen to know how he died, would you?
You don't know any more, Damon?
How'd you know my name?
My father used to talk about you.
Oh yeah, what'd he say?
He said you were a sadistic fuck that belonged in jail.
Look here, I don't like you getting in my face and saying this bullshit to me...
That's too bad.
I thought you said you never knew your father.
I didn't. [Beat] Did you have anything to do with his death?
I don't know what you're talking about, man. I swear. This is some weird shit you're telling me... and I don't know how come you're doing it.
He died because he bled to death from a blow to his head. Someone had to have given him it.
I never touched your father! I swear!
You know something, Damon? You're like a mule. You're real stubborn. But there's ways of fixin' that. All you need is a good stick. [Beat] Here's your stick. Live with it.
How long do we have?
I don't know.
They told me Becker's in Shelbourne now. I looked him up and he was listed.
How far away is that?
What about Captain Medley? He never told them what happened to you over there. His testimony...that coward wanted them to think you were crazy.
I know. It was perfect. [Beat] Erase my sanity and you erase anything I'll ever say.
Well, doesn't what he did to you make you mad?
Of course it makes me mad. It makes me more than mad. Just like remembering the face of the man who killed that officer and knowing nothing more about him. But what's it gonna do for me to find them now? I can't fix everything in three days.
You've got to get yourself out of that place. They're going to kill you if you don't.
I might not be able to.
It's not a prison, it's a hospital. There's got to be some way out of there and you've got to find it...
You'll die if you keep smoking those in your condition.
I'll die either way.
I can't try to help you unless you let me. [Beat] I know about the Jacket.
I'm sorry for what you were put through, and I'm sorry I couldn't stop it earlier. But I promise you that I will from now on...
What do you mean?
You have no idea what's going on.
No, I do. That's what I'm saying to you.
Listen to me! You don't! The Jacket is my only chance in this place.
How can you say that in your physical condition? Do you realize that it's because you were put in it that you're as...weak as you are now? Becker's a man who's not well himself.
You don't understand.
Then help me understand. You know, you're not alone. A lot of Gulf Vets have begun to experience curious symptoms. What you have might well be a syndrome and, if so, it's not one we know enough about to be treating it this vigorously.
This has nothing to do with that.
Then what? What? [Beat] I can't guess it. You have to help me.
...What you do not know is the only thing you know.
[Beat] And what you own is what you do not own... And where you are is where you are not.
[Beat] Where is that from?
I don't know. [Frustrated] Remember?
Come on. Tell me what you do know.
[Beat] I've seen a time that's not this time. And I'm only able to see it when I'm in the Jacket.
Well, what time is it?
2004.
You don't believe me.
Ok fine. Tell me about it. Tell me about the future. 2004. What does it look like?
It doesn't look all that different.
The future doesn't look different?
No. Not for people like me. [Beat] Not in the places I come from.
What about the world?
I didn't see that much of it -- same as now. I only saw it as part of my own life.
Do you think you're traveling in time? Is that it?
Not everyone in here is crazy, Doc.
[Beat] Like who? Like MacKenzie maybe?
Maybe.
Did he tell you he tried to kill his wife?
MacKenzie locked himself up in his house for two months and nearly starved himself to death before he was brought here. All because his wife left him for another man.
Why don't you help me?
Because I don't have time.
Why not?
I'm about to die unless I do something to stop it.
And how do you know that?
Because of the future. I know what's going to happen.
William, that is just another facet of my delusions.
And what about your work with Eugene -- the kid? Is that another facet of my delusions?
How do you know about Eugene?
You told me about him. I saw you and I think you thought I knew something about him. So you told me.
There obviously is, so what don't you just tell me how you found out about him.
Some part of you suspects -- even if you don't know for sure -- that what I'm saying is true.
I don't know how you know about Eugene, but these ideas are part of your delusions.
NO! They're not my delusions! Look, just leave my business with Becker to me!
One thing's got nothing to do with the other.
One's got everything to do with the other. So unless you want my blood on your hands...leave what's between me and Becker between me and Becker.
Hey, I brought you some smokes.
Lorenson said your wife left you for another man and that's when you lost it.
Geez, how's that for a fucking "thank you"?
Is it true?
She left me, I tried to kill her, I tried to kill myself. She was mean, I was weak, I was cruel so she left, I didn't plan it, didn't see it...FINE!
I didn't want to see it. I'm in here because they say I have a nervous condition. [Beat] Well, here's my question, who wouldn't be nervous if they really looked at their life? [Beat] Whose life is that good?
Not this luckless little mammal's. What difference is it to them? [Beat, slows down] You believe what you want to believe. One version is easier than another so you make it your own.
I'll tell you this though. However nuts I am, I wasn't nuts enough not to know how wrong it was to put a human being in something like that.
MacKenzie, [beat] what if we are crazy?
[Shrugging] What if we are? There're crazier things than thinking up fictions for yourself. [Beat] Everyone does it, don't they? Even Becker. That roller coaster car pops more pills than all of Ward 3.
Becker does? Are you sure?
I've been here for 11 years. It's my neighborhood. 'Course I'm sure. He's as drugged up as the rest of us...I guess he has to be to put up with all this.
Thanks for the cigarettes. You still got a lot of problems, MacKenzie, but you're ok.
At least it's some kind of bars we've got you behind.
Hello, William. I understand you've been asking for me almost every hour. I would've been here sooner but you gave our little state visitor quite a bit to talk to me about.
That's too bad.
It is. But when it comes down to it, you just have to patient with them. They'd rather have their vacation, too, so they just push dealing with our "practices" off to the New Year.
They make it hard for you to get away with your business, huh?
Temporarily.
Makes it a little easier for me to get away with mine.
And what's that?
My business?
Yes.
Getting away with things. Like whatever I may or may not have gotten away with Officer Harrison.
You killed him?
And wound up in a better cage. [Beat] But I still want to make a deal.
See, the deluxe lab animal treatment I've been receiving -- well, I don't think it's worked. I woke up today and realized... [eerily lowering his voice] ...I don't think I'm cured. So really, what was the point? Torture? I think that's still sort of illegal in some states -- though we'll have to check on Vermont. And, how's this for the cherry on top: it seems my physician is a pill-popping freak. [Beat] Last time I checked, that makes some pretty good copy for a lot of these news shows. [Humbly, deftly] "I don't remember everything they did to me. I just remember the worst parts." I think I should be sitting down when I say it, don't you think?
I think...I have to think about it.
I think your story needs a little fleshing out before it's ready to go.
I'll say a prayer for you in Church today, Starks. Maybe the Gods can pick up where the medicine left off.
You sure you know where to find one?
I've managed to every Sunday of my life. [Beat] Some of us are God- fearing men, Starks.
And what does that mean?
Means we believe in doing his work and fear what the world would be like if we didn't at least try to.
Becker, how do you sleep at night?
You in here. [Beat] Works like a drug.
Nina, William Starks is to stay in ICU all night. If anything is supposed to change, I want to be called about it.
Sure, Dr. Lorenson.
Hi. [Beat] Sorry I'm late.
It's ok. [To Eugene] Hi, Eugene.
Talia, I need to ask you something.
What is it?
Have you told anyone about my sessions with Eugene?
Has anyone been asking about him?
No. I would have told you.
No funny business or we can make this a lot fucking harder for you.
[Weakly] No funny business.
Eugene, this is a "TRAIN."
Come on back down here. Wherever you are...try to come on back. You'll like it, I promise.
You just scared me, that's all.
Me, too.
Here, drink this. I'll get the heat going.
You're sure?
Yeah. I called the number yesterday to make sure. Thomas Becker, retired M.D.
They're not here.
They're not.
[Beat, lost] No.
Maybe they're out.
How much time do we have?
I don't know.
What? What are you thinking?
There're no cars on this street.
Yeah, you're right. But wait, how can that be?
I don't know. Maybe that's because this whole thing is a dream. How can you have a street with no cars on it?
I don't know. But this isn't a dream. I'm real, and so is where we are.
Then why isn't there anyone around?
[Beat] I don't know.
What are you doing?
William! William!
Maybe he's gone somewhere. He'll have to come back.
Of course he will. [Beat] What day of the week is it?
It's Sunday.
It's Sunday.
So?
Look where these people live.
They've got lives to be grateful for.
William, you're not making sense.
[Beat] They're at Church. And I bet that's where Becker is.
You still go to Church. How's that work? Your God just doesn't notice? That it? [Beat, serious] How you doin', Dr. Becker?
Grandpa?
I don't know, Dr. Becker. Can you?
Who are you?
I think you know. Your eyes say you do.
[Beat] You're his son?
No. I'm not his son. I'm him. [Beat] What? You look like you've seen a ghost. You can come here and touch me, old man. I'm the real thing.
How...how are you here?
You died, Starks. Years ago, in the hospital.
I know. [Beat] You killed me, didn't you?
No. I didn't. I swear I didn't. I probably helped push you to kill yourself, but I didn't do it.
I didn't kill myself. I died from a blow to the head. How'd it happen? I have to know.
I don't know how you died. The last time I put you in the Jacket was just after you told me you remembered killing that police officer...
I didn't say I remembered killing him. I just repeated some words to get myself back in there.
I know. [Beat] I knew that when you came out.
How?
Because...because you came out and said something you couldn't have possibly have known. You came back and repeated three names...
Of people like you. People I was just trying to help. They couldn't get worse so I thought, with medication, they might get...
Medication? What kind of meds do you chase with nights in a cadaver drawer?
It was part of the treatment I intended...I didn't know what the effects would be...
So, what, you guinea pig sick people to find out?
The three of you weren't regular patients. You were criminals that ended up at Alpine Grove.
No, we were patients.
You and the others didn't seem that way then.
Who were the others?
What is it?
How did you come to know their names?
You just told me. The last time I was with you was when I was in the Jacket. I'm in it right now, Dr. Becker.
I don't understand...
I'm in it as we speak. [Beat] You're haunting yourself right now. [Beat] I guess sometimes we indict ourselves if no one else does. You didn't make history like you wanted to, huh, Dr. Becker. It turned out different, didn't it?
I didn't put you in Alpine Grove.
No. [Beat] You put me on drugs and then you put me in the Jacket.
I was sorry when I heard you died. I was, but...how was I to know you didn't shoot that police officer?
The same way you just said I didn't without my ever telling you. [Beat] And that still doesn't excuse what you did. Just because you had keys to a cage didn't mean you had animals inside. [Beat] You've earned your guilt, Becker.
That's all you got from him? That bastard helped take your life away from you.
No, he didn't.
What? How can you say that? He's the one that put you in that goddamn medieval...Jacket. He's probably the one who killed you.
No one's killing anyone.
Touch me. I'm okay.
If everything hadn't happened the way it has, then I wouldn't be here right now, sitting in a car with you, touching your face.
Why are you saying that? [Beat] We don't have long, do we?
Where are we going?
To the hospital.
Claire, I need help.
What's happening to me? Why am I getting so much weaker?
Because your body can only take so much of what they're putting you through.
Jesus, what's happened to him?
Lorenson's the only one that could let me out of there. I need something to persuade her that I was there. Get me something to take to her.
Ok. Ssh. Rest.
No, no. [Beat] Not yet. But he doesn't have long. Are you sure you don't want a doctor to look at him?
No! It won't do any good. [Beat] Please, Claire. They won't understand.
Hey, Mister, you need a ride?
Where are you going?
I'm going to Canada but I can let you ride with me up to the border.
Can you drive?
Sure.
Great, get in. We'll switch off in a bit.
William, please, honey, wake up. For me.
Can you hear me?
I found out about Eugene. The little boy. He's the key. That's who you have to tell her about when you get back there. It's the only way to prove this to her.
Jackie?
What?
When we first met, when you were 7, where was the house you lived in with your mother? Do you remember your address?
112 Orchard Way. [Realizing, in a whisper] You're not coming back, are you?
You gotta stop thinking like that.
Then, where are you going?
Nowhere. [Beat] I just think I'm gonna be sick.
Oh dear God.
I'm William Starks. I'm not his son. And...and the kid you work with. Your friend's son...Eugene...
I know. I know it all. Save your strength. I already know everything you're going to say. [Beat] You're in the Jacket right now, aren't you?
How...how do you know?
You told me this was how it happened.
I did?
Yeah.
Who...who kills me?
You have nothing to fear, William.
Becker, I know about you. [Beat] I know what you did to your patients.
Nathan...Piechowski. [Beat] Jackson MacGregor...Ted Casey. [Beat] You didn't cure them. You killed them.
Would you like anything, Dr. Lorenson?
A cup of coffee would be great, Sally. Thanks.
Is he gonna be ok?
I hope so.
Me, too.
You're going to be ok, William. We just need to get your fever down and we'll be able to hopefully stabilize you.
Who are you kidding, Doc? You or me?
Can I get some paper and something to write with.
What for?
I'm starting to think I'm really gonna die soon. So I'd like to write some things down.
I'm not gonna let that happen.
You still don't believe me, do you?
I do believe you...
No. Listen to me...the kid, Eugene...
No one knows you're working with him so how would I have found out? He's your friend's son, right?
William, I can't indulge these delusions, even when you're in this state.
Listen to me. That's all I ask.
He's having absence [pronounced "absance"] seizures when he stares off into space like he does. He has them so often that that's why he hasn't learned to speak properly.
Who told you this?
You did, in the future. You figured it out because a part of you already knows this. That's how it works. [Beat] I'm just telling you something you already know, even if you haven't realized it.
I don't know when it'll happen but soon I think, you'll shock the boy and it'll wake him up.
What are you talking about?
You'll figure it out and you'll do good by him.
Hey.
What is it?
Come on Eugene, try to say it with me. This is a "DOG".
D--d---d----.
What's happening to you?
Are you having a seizure? Is that really what's going on?
Dog. [To Talia] Hi.
You ok, Eugene?
What's happening?
But he's not epileptic.
No, but he is having seizures.
It worked, didn't it?
This is really happening, isn't it?
[Beat] What do you need me to do?
[Beat] Thank you.
I need to get this letter to someone.
I can't take you out of here in your condition...
And I can't stay here in my condition. I am going to die tonight. It's already been decided.
No, it hasn't.
Yes. [Beat] It has. Everything up 'till today is done. Everything starting with tomorrow is up for grabs.
You know how to get there?
Sure. It's an easy address. A little far out there, but easy enough.
Good.
You want me to come with you?
No, I'll be ok.
Hi.
Hey. [Beat] I remember you.
I remember you, too.
Jackie, how have you been?
I've been ok.
Good. How's your mom?
Ok, I guess.
Do you think I could see her?
Sure.
Can I help you?
Hey, Jean. Nice to see you.
I'm sorry? Your face looks awfully familiar, I just can't quite place it...
Mom, this is the guy that drove us home that afternoon we were stuck on the highway. The guy you yelled at for no good reason...
Oh, yeah.
There something you need?
You could say that.
Jackie, go play in the snow.
Why?
Just do it.
I can't stay long. [Motioning to Lorenson] That's my doctor and I gotta get back to the hospital. Everything I want to say is in this letter. [Beat] You can check as much of it as you can.
I won't be around when you read it...but I hope you believe it. It'd be a real shame if you didn't.
[Beat] I should be on my way.
Bye, Jackie.
Happy New Year to both of you.
Thanks. You, too.
Hey, wait!
[Beat] You be good to yourself, Jackie.
Ok.
I was 25 years old the first time I died. It didn't end anything though. [Beat] Sometimes I think we live through things only to be able to tell them, to bear witness, to say this happened.
And it wasn't to someone else. It was to me. And I lived despite it. Sometimes I think we live to beat the odds. And sometimes I agree that life can only begin with the knowledge of death. That it can all end, even when you least want it to.
I'm telling you my story because it's the only way I can try to help your daughter, and you, have a better one of your own.
It's scary...and lucky...how much we can forget. Scary because we think the past gives us our bearing, and lucky because in those moments I'm talking about, you realize it doesn't. And it never had to.
I am not a crazy man, even though they mistook me for one. I live in the same world as the rest of you. Only I saw more of it.
And the seeing is the only way you can hear what the truth around you is saying: you can always start believing in things you don't already believing in. And, while you're alive, it's never too late.
No! Wa...atch out!
I promise you, Jean. No matter how bad the days and things around you look, they look better awake than they do asleep. I can offer you some proof: when you die, there's only one thing you want to have happen...sometimes so badly it comes true, I guess. [Beat] You want to come back.
Hey there. [Beat] You ok?
I think so.
You're bleeding pretty bad there.
It's ok. It's ok. Relax. It's just a cut. We can get it fixed. But we need to get you to the hospital now. How'd you get that?
I fell down. [Beat] But I'm alive.
You work there?
Thanks.
Sorry, one sec.
Hey! How are you? [Beat] Thanks. I was just thinking about you, too.
Listen, I gotta go, mom, 'cause I'm late... but, thanks. Happy New Year to you, too. I'll call you later. [Beat] Ok, bye.
Sorry about that. It was my mom.
Nothin' to worry about there.
How you doin'?
I'm doing fine.
