 Amo, arias, amat, amamus, amatis, amant.
 One times nine is nine. Two times nine is eighteen. Three times nine is twenty-seven. Four times nine is thirty-six
 Do, no, mi, Pa, sol, la, ti, do.
Come in, please.
Here we are, Mary.
I have a most painful matter to discuss with you, Mary.
Your sister - - have you heard from her lately?
No, Mrs. Lowood, she doesn't write often.
Have you any other relatives, Mary?
No. Jacqueline brought me up.  Somehow I never felt I needed other relatives.
That makes it all the more difficult
 Difficult? Has anything happened to Jacqueline?
We don't know, Mary. We've been unable to get in touch with your sister.
 Sometimes she can be quite careless. Why don't you try Mrs. Redi?
I have written repeatedly to Mrs. Redi. She vouchsafes no information whatsoever.  It is six months since your tuition has been paid, Mary. Naturally, it is impossible for you to stay on here as a paying pupil.
 Of course.
Miss Gilcrist and I have talked it over. You can remain here and work with the younger children as a sort of assistant teacher. These Valentine cut-outs for instance -  -- it's something you could do.
But, Mrs. Lowood, I can't just stay here not knowing what's happened to my sister. Maybe if I went to New York -- if I saw Mrs. Redi myself --
I doubt if you'll get anything out of that woman. But if  you'd like to try, I'll advance you the money to make the trip to New York. Of course, my dear, if you don't find your sister, you can always come back here.
 Thank you.
Mary, don't come back. No matter if you never find your sister - no matter what happens to you -- don't come back.
 My parents died when I was a pupil. I left, as you are leaving, but I didn't have courage -- one must have courage to really live in the world -- I came back.
Gilcrist!
Je cherche Tu cherches Ell cherahe Nous cherohons Vous cherchez Elba cherohent
Agnes --- ! John Quincy Adams did not follow John Adams as President.
Build thee more stately mansions, 0 my soul, As the swift seasons roll; Leave thy low-vaulted past! Let each new temple, nobler than the last Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast, Till thou at length art free, Leaving thins outgrown shell by life's unresting sea;;
That's enough.
 It seems all right, Joseph. (turning to Mary with a strained smile) You see, we do keep up the quality of La Jeunesse products in spite of Jacqueline's absence.
 But you must know someone who has seen or heard of my sister.
 I'm afraid not.
Your sister had many friends --but they were not my friends. I was only the manager of her plant.
Mrs. Redi, there's one thing -with Jacqueline gone, how do you carry on the business? What do you do with the receipts? How do you sign checks--?
 Mary, I'm amazed. Didn't Jacqueline tell you? She sold the business to me at least eight months ago. It's my business now.
I didn't know.
 Yes  and I must say I've done very well with it -- perhaps even better than Jacqueline.
There's nothing you can think of -- old letters, anything, that might give me some hint as to where I might find Jacqueline?
Leave me your address, and if I find anything, I'll get in touch with you.
I'm stopping at the Chatsworth.
 Thank you, my dear.
 Why, Mary --
Hello, Frances.
How's Miss Jacqueline?
I don't know. That's why I came to see Mrs. Redi. I'm trying to find her.
You mean Miss Jacqueline's gone, and you don't know where she is?
I don't get this. Miss Jacqueline was always so fond of you -- she was always talking about you - had your picture in her office.
I know. For the first time I'm beginning to be frightened. I almost feel as if I'd never known my sister.
Nothing's happened to her. It's just that I can't understand her not getting in touch with you.
I can't understand it at all.
Well, don't worry. I saw Miss Jacqueline only a week ago. I saw her at a little restaurant the boy friend took me to -- an Italian place down in the Village -    "The Dante."
"The Dante?"
It's on Peary Street. Just ask the people who run it. They'll remember her.  People who see Miss Jacqueline never forget her.
I'll try there.
I'm worry to bother you. I want to ask you about my sister.
 Yes?
I thought you might know her. She was seen here about a week ago. Her name is Jacqueline Gibson.
 I don't know no Gibson. This is a restaurant. Many people come here.
She's very beautiful.
I wish I could tell you what she looked like -- I know you'd remember her, She is tall --with dark hair --
Once you'd seen my sister you'd never forget her.
 Giacomo -- la bellisslina madonna -
Maybe.
 Let me look at you -- you could be her sister
 Yes  yes, if she made that much impression on you, I'm sure it was Jacqueline.
She's not been here for a long time.
But she was here?
Oh yes, yes. One day a beautiful car comes here. This beautiful lady in furs gets out. There is a handsome man with her, and the chauffeur  The lady rents one of our upstairs rooms. The chauffeur changes the lock on the door. Then the lady never comes back --not to live, anyhow. She came back three, four times, but always alone and just to eat.
You mean she just came here, rented the room, locked it, and left?
Yes -- and pays the rent every month.
Could you let me see that room? If it is hers, there might be something there to help me find my sister.
 No -- the rent in paid. The lady asked us to promise, I wouldn't open the door.
Please.
 It's important
Fo come ti pare. To desiderare sempre di vedere che cosa c'era in quella stanza.
 What did he say?
 He says he always wanted to see the inside of that room anyway.
I tell you, young lady, when a thing like this comes up, you've got to go to the police. What do you think people pay taxes for? I ain't just to keep us chasing after crooks and regulating traffic. We're supposed to help everybody. You gotto go to the police about your sister, Miss.
I've had some experience with the Bureau of Missing Persons
Yeah -- well, Mr. Hoag, lost persons are the concern of the Missing Persons Bureau.
You're a poet, Jason. You stick to your poetry.
In a way that makes everything my business.
 Were you going to make a suggestion?
Yes. I was going to tell you to look into your own heart -- do you really want to find your sister?
Ah, my Jason -- always laughing -- always trying to help others.  He's a good boy, Miss -- he just talks that way.
 I'm a good boy, but no one listens to what I say.
You do what I tell you, young lady, and go to the Missing Persons Bureau for your sister.
 If you'll give me the address.
She was only sixteen --
Had she ever run away before?
What did he have on when last seen?
 He went out without his hat or his coat. It's very cold for such an old man -
Any identifying marks or characteristics, scars, amputations, tattoo marks, speech impediments?
No, none.
Any further details?
She sold her business about eight months ago to Mrs. Esther Redi.
What relation are you to the missing person?
Sister.
Sign here.
I'm Irving August, private investigator. I think I can help you. Here's my card.
The name may not mean anything to you, young lady, but say the word and I'll have your sister for you in forty-eight hours.
 You can?
 Look, sister', Manhattan is only nine miles long and four and one half miles wide. I ain't never been off it. I know it like you know your own back yard. You get me a small retainer --say fifty bucks, and I'll get your sister for you. I guarantee
I haven't any money but I'll get a job and --
Lady, this kind of work costs money. I got to cover all the hospitals, the morgue -- that's the first place you got to go and it ain't pleasant -- the morgue -
You know who I am, August?
 Sure I do.
Then you know that if I give you a little advice, it'll be good advice.
Yeah - sure.
That girl was looking for Jacqueline Gibson. I'd forget it if I were you.
Okay, Mr. Radeau, it's forgot.
Hey, Danny, get me the file on Jacqueline Gibson, will you?
Whom do you wish to see?
Mr. Gregory Ward, please.
And what is it about, Miss Gibson?
 A personal matter  I was given Mr. Ward's name --
May I ask who gave you his name?
The morgue
Do you feel all right?
I feel like an idiot  fainting in a stranger's office.
 We're not exactly strangers, Mary. Jacqueline spoke about you often. I suppose she told you about me,
No...At the morgue they told me a Mr. Gregory Ward had made inquiries about Jacqueline.
The Morgue? No wonder you fainted.  I wish you had come to me first.
Then you know where Jacqueline is?
 But I'd give a great deal to know.
 Why?
 I love your sister, Mary. I love her very much.
It's easy to understand now, isn't it?
 A man would look anywhere for her, Mary. There is something exciting and unforgettable about her - something you never get hold of - something that keeps a man following after her.
Because I loved Jacqueline I thought I knew her. Today I found out such strange things frightening things. I saw a hangman's noose that she had hanging - waiting  I feel as if I'd never known her.
 At least I can explain that, Mary. Your sister had a feeling about life  that it wasn't worth living unless one could end it. I helped her get that room.
Weren't you afraid?
Afraid she might commit suicide?  People who commit suicide don't talk about it. That room made her happy in some strange way I couldn't understand. She lived in a world of her own fancy. She didn't always tell the truth. In fact - I'm afraid she didn't know what the truth was. (he pauses for a moment, and looks at Mary) There were many things about Jacqueline I didn't understand, and yet, without understanding, I had to be with her  to see her  to touch her  in order to be happy. It's hard to explain to a youngster.
 I'm not a youngster. I can understand.
The colors returning to your cheeks. You look as if you were coming back to life. Are you sure you didn't faint because you were hungry?
You know...I didn't have lunch.
It's nearly six. Time for dinner, I'd say.
Thank you. It was a lovely dinner.
Good.
 But I reel guilty. It doesn't seem right for me to enjoy myself with Jacqueline gone.
You can't make it your life's work looking for Jacqueline.  You'll have to do other things... live...get some enjoyment out of life. I hope you'll let me help you.
 Thank you.. .goodnight.
Goodnight, Mary.
I've been waitin' for you Miss Gibson. I want you to know I've decided to take your case.
Mr. August, I'm not at all sure -
 Look. Don't say a word. I've taken an interest in you and I'm willin' to put up my time to help you. Besides, I think I know where to find your sister.
Where?
Wait a minute. This has got a lot of angles. You've got to take it easy. Do you know a Mrs. Redi?
Yes. She bought my sister's business.
That's what she told you. I looked it up at the Hall of Records. Your sister deeded her the business as an outright girt.
Why would Mrs. Redi lie to me?
That's what I tried to find out.    I went to La Jeunesse (he mispronounces as badly as he can) -- used a phony health inspector's badge  they let me go through the works -- all but one room. That room was locked. I'd like to see the inside of that room.
You think my sister is there?
You can't tell.
Can we go there now?
Sister, you can't just go breaking into places. There's a night watchman down there and locks on the door.
If my sister's in that room, it won't make any difference about warrants- and things, I want to go there.
 I don't know if I want to go with you or not.
I don't like this.
Which room is it?
It's the last door at the end of this hall.
You scared?
Yes.
Let's get out of here.
No.
You could go on, Mr. August. You could open the door. I'd stay right here.
It's only a little way, Mr. August.
I'd like to get out of here.
No.
We can't stand here all night.
You could go and open the door.
Listen
Mr. August -- the night watchman
The night watchman -- he is in the salon.
Mr. August, what is it? What's the matter?
Mr. August --
You know where you're going, lady?
You've been to the end of the line and back again -- hope you enjoyed the ride.
Please --- please
I want your help, please.
These men in there  don't let them get out.
What's the matter now?
One of them has been murdered!
 What men?
But they were there.
Yeah.
Wuxtra! Murder! Murder! Read all about it!
This is about another murder  a woman at Fifty Second Street
But you do believe me?
 The important thing is, the police won't believe you.
I saw him on the floor. He was cut -  --here. The blood was running out. He was dead. I'm sure of it. Then on the subway I saw him white  and the men holding him up between them.
Yes, of course  but the police would say you'd probably had a bad dream.
He was a kind little man in his way and I made him go down that hall into the darkness. I made him do it.
Drink your milk.
I don't like to be ordered to do anything.
I'm sorry. I didn't intend to treat you like a child.
But you have treated me that way.
I won't do it again. We're friends. I'll never order you about again.
 However, I won't say that I'll not take charge occasionally, and I'm going to take charge new. I've a job for you.
A job?
You told me you were pretty good with youngsters. Today I bumped into an old friend of mine, Mrs. Wheeler  She runs a settlement house down in the Village and is looking for a kindergarten teacher.
I'd like that.
It's not much money, but it's enough to live on. You'd have to move out of that hotel and into a furnished room.
Maybe the Romaris might have a room. They seem nice.
The people at the restaurant?
Yes.
If you want, I've time to take you down to see Mrs. Wheeler right now.
Mr. Ward will see you in just a few minutes. Won't you wait, Dr. Judd?
Thank you.
Dr. Judd?
Are you Dr. Louis Judd?
Yes.
I read your book. The one in which you wrote about the cure for drinking.
You're not a dipsomaniac at your age?
No. It's my father -- I wanted to talk to you -- you wrote about cures --
I'm sorry. I don't practice any more. I find it easier to write about mental illness and leave the cure of it to others.
 Mr. Ward is free now, Doctor.
 There are any number of other psychiatrists who can help your father -- dipsomania is rather sordid.
 Thank you.
 I've come from Jacqueline. She needs money.
I thought you told me you didn't know where she was.
  I didn't. She came to me a few days ago. To put it delicately her care imposes a financial burden upon me. She thought you might lighten that burden.
If Jacqueline wants money she can come to me herself.
I'm afraid she can't do that, Ward. It would endanger her.
What sort of danger?
I'd like to tell you. I would tell you, but I'm fond of Jacqueline, I don't want her to run any risks.
This is nonsense! Unless I know where Jacqueline is, and how she is, I won't give you any money.
 You're a curious man. You're willing to jeopardize Jacqueline's life in order to satisfy your own curiosity.
You come to me with some wild story about her being in danger - naturally I want to know what kind of danger. I want to know where she is.
It's not just for myself I'm asking. Her sister is here. The kid's half crazy with anxiety.
As a man, you distrust me - perhaps you believe me as a physician.
Well, then I can tell you that in addition to other dangers, there is a grave danger of Jacqueline losing her sanity. I would advise against you seeing her.
But why? She's been ill --erratic, but I've never heard of anything like that!
I told you I was speaking as her physician -- not as anything else -- You can believe me or not, just as you choose.
 How much does she want?
She could use a hundred dollars.
 I'll give you a check.
 She can only use cash.
I haven't got that much in cash.
How much have you got?
About forty-five dollars.
For the time being, I imagine that must do.
Tell me, how is Jacqueline?
 Oh, as beautiful as ever.
But tell me --
 She's nervous, naturally, under the circumstances.
What circumstances?
You know that I can't tell you.
 As her physician and I am speaking as her friend now, too, I warn you that it would be extremely dangerous to attempt to see her.
What brought you down here, Greg?
 Oh, I had business with a man... but I missed him -
Well, I'm glad you came to see me.
Can I wake up now, Miss Gibson?
You first have to go to sleep, Nancy. Then you can wake up.  We'll have to talk quietly.
Happy here?
Everything has turned out so well for me - - I have a nice job -- friends - - except the one thing I came to New York for - -to find Jacqueline --
It's not knowing that makes it so hard. This way, whenever I walk along the streets I think I see her. I see some woman, peer into her face and find a stranger. I dream of her at night. It's terrible to say -- but if she were dead it would be easier. There would be some certainty about it.
Miss Gibson, I'm tired of resting.
Sh-h-h Nancy. The other children.
  What have you done about Irving August?
 Oh, I'm making investigations.
You've never believed a word I told you about Mr. August.
Look, Mary, now that I know you better, I think I can be more frank with you. I don't believe you. I still can't understand the reason for such a wild tale. It's like some of Jacqueline's stories.
Greg, it isn't a wild tale. It's true. If there were only some way --
There is a very simple way. Got a telephone book?
Is it fifteen minutes yet?
No, Nancy.    You've got to sleep two more minutes.
 May I speak to Mr. Irving August?
 I'm very sorry. Thank you..
You were right. Irving August has been missing for three weeks.
Mama, see. Miss Gibson helped me. It's a table.
Beautiful. We show it to papa tonight.
Did Michele eat her soup today?
She's been an angel.
 Mama. Wait for me.
Angelo. Wait.
Well, Mary, aren't you the popular one. You've a visitor again.
Mr. Ward?
No, not this time. It's a gentleman called Judd -- Dr. Judd.
I don't know anyone by that name.
He asked for you, my dear.
Dr. Judd?
Yes, Miss Gibson. I've come to take you to your sister.
Don't be so amazed. It's a very ordinary matter. I'm Jacqueline's physician... Mr. Ward told me you were in town and Jacqueline has sent me to bring you to her.
You know where she is?
 If I didn't know where she was, could I take you to her? Get your hat and coat. We haven't much time.
It's my cloven hoof. It trips me up sometimes.
Cloven hoof?
Yes. You know the devil and all his minions are marked that way.
 It's amid such marble splendors as these that Jacqueline dwells.
You can take either stairway -- I prefer the left - the sinister side.
  Jacqueline.
 She's not here. She's gone.
I don't know why she left. She knows she shouldn't have.
She's gone. She's left me to meet them alone. I can't.
 What makes you so nervous, Dr. Judd. Who are they?
I can't stay here. I'll have to leave you.
 Jacqueline!
 Is this her?
Nope. (turning to Mary, removing his cigar from his mouth) Where's Jacqueline Gibson?
 I don't know.
She was just here. Where's she gone?
I tell you I don't know.
That's funny. You went out with her, came back alone, and don't know where she went.
I don't know.
Why do you want Jacqueline? What right have you to question me?
Young lady, I've got all the right in the world. I'm Paul Radeau, private investigator, and I have been hired to find your sister by her husband, Gregory Ward.
 Husband --
 What ho, wench! Would you keep a benighted traveller waiting?
 Jason, my pet
Bella Romari    If I were not seated, I would embrace you in three movements like a sonata.  Ah, my wonderful one. Fly with me tonight. We will take your coffee machine and live with the gypsies.
 Oh, this funny man.  He is a very funny man, but I love him.
What are you thinking of, Bella? Can I eat dry?
Oh, the wine. I have forgotten the wine.
Look, Mary, just because I kept a secret from you doesn't make me a monster. Please look at me, Mary.
Can't I make you understand? The secret wasn't mine in the first place. It was Jacqueline's. I don't know why. She never wanted anything from me -- not even my name
Please - I can't explain things like this to your right ear.
Last night in this very restaurant Mr. Jason Hoag paid a very pretty compliment to my right ear.
 Who the devil is he?
A poet. He's sitting right over there. That's his table  the one at the feet of Dante.
 He seems all right. (then resuming his former conversation) Look, Mary. It was something I couldn't tell you. Remember how you came to my office that first day, frightened and broken up? I asked you if she had spoken about me. You said "no." Then how could I tell you that we were married -- and afterwards -- I couldn't tell you because --
 Why do you bring me wine, beautiful ones when you yourself are intoxicating.
 You're my favorite audience, Bella.
Why can't everyone be happy like we are -- laugh and have good times. Look at that poor little one  so sad because she can't find her sister. And that man with her - he doesn't make her laugh  he just sits and talks.
 We are happy, Mrs. Romari, because you have everything  and I am happy because I have nothing to lose.
But you should make her laugh, Jason. Come, make jokes for her. I'll bring your food to their table.
You could have told me any time you were Jacqueline's husband.
Things changed, Mary. The reasons for finding Jacqueline changed. I want to find Jacqueline to settle things.
 What things? Why?
You two are so sad. Your food will not digest, and your wine will sour. You must laugh to eat well. I have brought Jason to make you laugh.
Mr. Hoag, this is Mr. Ward.
Sit down. I'll get the rest of your dinner.
I'm under orders to make you laugh. In Mrs. Romari's mind my poetry and humor have some strange affinity which they don't have in fact. She wants me to play the fool for you, and suddenly, Miss Gibson, I feel as sad as you do.
 Well,then I have spoiled your dinner -- "your food won't digest, and your wine will sour."
You will have to make all the jokes, because I'm going to be very serious.
I'm going to find your sister.
I don't think that's a good subject for jokes, Mr. Hoag.
But I'm not joking.
Don't be ridiculous. For months I've had the best private detective in New York looking for Miss Gibson.
But I'm better than a detective. I have an understanding of people - and a love of them -- an understanding of the city - -
You don't even know Jacqueline Gibson.
But I understand her. That may be more important.
It may make very fine poetry, Mr. Hoag, but it doesn't make good sense.
Mary, when you first came here, I told you to look into your heart. You didn't listen to me. You listened to the policeman instead. You didn't find your sister, did you?
 Look here, just because Mrs. Romari asked you to amuse us.
This city is my world. I know every rat-infested corner of my world and every starlit chamber of its purity and greatness.
You don't even know where to start -
One starts by beginning. Beginnings lead to an end.
Well?
 This is the part of New York I love. It is old. It has memories. If you listen, the houses will speak to you. Walt Whitman...Edna St. Vincent Millay... Eugene O'Neill...in their time they've all lived here.
All very nice but, what are you going to do - listen at every house in New York for Jacqueline's voice?
 I'm looking for a party -- a merry party.
Well, that's illuminating.
Only music. It leads, but we cannot follow.
 Riddles now.
Wait. This is a party.
 Now, if you'll all take your seats, Miss Randall will show us the slides she took of Woods Hole Marine Institute this summer.
Sounds dull, doesn't it? My ear is perfectly trained. I can tell the brand of liquor and the quality of the guests from the noise they make.
 That sounds more like it. Come on.
Shuffle the cards well, Natalie. This is a trick of telepathy not card manipulation
Now pass me the cards.
 Gladys, you hand the deck to Louis while I answer the door.
Jason! How nice to see you.
 I have brought some friends, Natalie. May we all come to your party?
Of course.
Mrs,. Cortez, Mary Gibson and Mr. Ward.
 It's so nice to meet you.
You'll have to excuse me.
Mrs. Freeman, yours was the Jack of Spades. Gladys, yours was the Seven of Diamonds, and Mrs. Gosden, the Queen of Hearts -
How do you ever do it, Louis?
Hello, Jason.
 Where is Jacqueline Gibson?
 What a peculiar question.
I saw you with her last week. I knew you'd be here tonight. Where is she?
My dear fellow, it's neither your business to ask, nor mine to tell.
Wait. Look over there.
See that girl? That's Jacqueline's sister. It's because of her I ask.
But why come to me?
Because there was another girl years ago -- a nice girl. She lived on Barrow Street. I saw her with you once - I saw her with you twice and then I never saw her again. That's why.
She was my patient.
What was she to you?
I don't think that you would understand if I told you.
I think I understand without your telling me. I know something of your history, Jason. I know that you haven't written for ten years.
I've lost my knack.
After that wonderful first book - after all the adulation and the good reviews?
I would have given anything if I could have written that book. You had all my admiration and respect once.
Now that you know me, you must feel free to come often.
 Hello, Ward.
My dear Miss Gibson --
Gibson? Are you Jacqueline's sister?
Yes. Do you --
 Know her! My dear, we were intimate! The times we used to have together! I bet she never told you about that -- you're too young.
I'm afraid you don't understand. Miss Gibson's sister is missing
Missing? Well, no wonder. When she took up with Louis Judd she went out of circulation, like that!
 My dear, have I said something?
 No. You've just turned the dagger in the wound - - a beautiful job.
 There are too many people here. I think Jacqueline may be lonely --? for me.
You see, Mary, I'm not quite a fool.
At least you knew about Dr. Judd.
Yes.
And you knew he'd be here.
Yes. And now that I've shown you that I know that much, and can guess more -- will you trust me to look for Jacqueline?
I want you to look for Jacqueline.
I'm a terrible failure, Mary, -- a book clerk by day and a poet by night, and not a very good one - but if you'll trust me -- at this one thing I won't fail --I'll find your sister.
 You have such lovely hands, Miss Gottschalk. So slim and capable --
 Oh, Mr. Jason. I really shouldn't be doing this, you know. It's against the rules.  When did you say you wanted them?
I want to see what they read so I'll know what kind of books to give my friends as presents. There's nothing nicer for a gift than a book.
Who was the first one -- Mrs. Redi?
 N - o - p - q - r - r - Redi. Here it is.
And the other was Judd?
Yes, Dr. Louis Judd.
It's here, too.
Would it be asking too much, Miss Gottschalk, for you to get me these books?
 No, not at all, Mr. Jason.
 Why, Mr. Jason. Most of these books are on the closed shelf. You have to get permission.
 I wouldn't want to take them out. I just want to look at them.
 Well, since, you're over twenty one
 Mimi!
Come in.
It's terribly sweet of you, Jason.
I have something even better.
 What is it?
A parallelogram with a split triangle in its very center.
But for what, Jason?
To unlock mysteries -- to unravel the thread that leads to Jacqueline.
 I suppose I'll have to explain. Go on with your washing.
I have been at the library.
But you're always at the library.
I went as a detective. I found out that Mrs. Redi reads the same books as Dr. Judd.
I don't think that's so revealing.
But who is Judd, a psychiatrist. It's quite natural that he should read books on the history of old religious societies. But why should Mrs. Redi, a woman with a beauty parlor --?
I don't know.
That's it. And this figure --she traced it. The book I saw at the library had been marked "perfect" by the library inspector in March. Mrs. Redi had it out in April. No one else had read it since.
 I'm at sea, Jason.
 Such a simple matter. This figure is the symbol of the Palladists.
 It's all clear to me now -- so clear.
I thought it would be, but just to be sure, I'll tell you that the Palladists are a society of Devil worshippers --
Devil worshippers!
Look. I'm serious. It's a real and vary earnest society -- a dangerous society...
 I can imagine.
Some time before those nice white gloves are dry you're going to go and find out a few things about Mrs. Redi.
Oh, Jason, I scared you. Maybe I could scare some information out of Mrs. Redi or perhaps Frances.
I can't see much fun in teaching school. Why don't you go into the beauty business.
But I like teaching school.
Well, if it's fun for you, it's all right. I get a kick out of my work when the customers aren't too crabby.
Is Mrs. Redi nice to work for?
Redi's all right.
She seems rather an odd woman to me.
She's a pretty good sort.
What does she do with herself after business hours?
It always seemed to me she was sort of lonely and unhappy.
I guess most people are.
Well, that's it.
In the old days, it would have been on the house.
The tip is, anyhow. I like to work on your hair.
Thank you.
Do you know what this is, Frances?
 I ought to know.
What is it?
 It's Mrs. Redi's new trademark.
Of course, I should have known. That figure has been puzzling me.
Hello, Mary. It's nice to see you. No news of Jacqueline?
I'm afraid not.
That's too bad.
What did she want?
I did her hair.
What were you talking about?
Nothing.
Nothing! That's absurd. I heard you laughing and talking, She was asking questions.
She was just asking about you - Whether it was nice to work for you or not.
And that was all?
No. She asked about the trademark.
What did she want to know?
She showed me a drawing.
 You    fool! That symbol is us -- us. She was asking about us.
But I'll stop her questions
I know the others -- Redi, Fallon, Leo, Bruns. But I would never have guessed it of you, Natalie.
 One believes - it's like any other religion...
I'd hardly describe It that way - The worship of evil is a pretty dreadful and special thing.
It seems right to us.
I know the theory behind the movement. If one believes in good one believes in evil. If one believes in God, one must believe in the devil. And an intelligent person can make his own choice that's it, isn't it?
Because you are intelligent -- that's why they sent me to you --
I think I can give you a more practical reason for your kind invitation. I know too much. I was Jacqueline's psycho-analyst.
I always thought it was a more intimate relationship.
Perhaps, Natalie, this is a bargain you're offering me --I am being allowed to join -- to buy safety by betraying Jacqueline -- is that it?
I haven't said anything of the sort.
But you would like to know where she is?
Yes. There are certain punitive measures...
I can imagine. But you did say you came to me as my friend --that you were concerned for me.
I'm afraid you have mistaken my motive, Louis. I thought you might understand and sympathize.
I have no sympathy for either good or evil. I have only curiosity -- a professional curiosity. What unhappy people most of you are!
Are we?    I thought I was very gay.
A gay lot - Redi, for instance.  I don't know what her sorrow is,    but her life's an empty one. She's had to have this to cling to. Frances Fallon, with her worship of Jacqueline, has had to follow like a sheep. And Bruns, the fanatic. And you...
I was a great dancer...
A strange collection. You're like the false god you worship... fallen angels, all of you.
Life has betrayed us. We've found there is no heaven on earth, so we must worship evil for evil's own sake. We're not wicked. We commit no violence, unless...
 Unless what?
 No, you draw no secrets from me, as you drew them from Jacqueline. You are not one of us yet. You're clever, Louis, but I recognize your interest in me for what it is worth. You are only curious. You have never loved a woman who had but one arm.
It would be a charming experience. She might only protest half as much.
 You're very flippant and perhaps wise, but not wise enough to see the truth, Louis.
 What is truth?
Those are the first words I have ever heard you say without mockery and contempt.
Mary.
 Yes.
This is Mrs. Redi, Mary.
 I'll be out in a minute.
That won't be necessary. I haven't much to say.
If I were you, Mary -- I'd go back to school. I'd make no further attempt to find Jacqueline.
Why?
It will make you unhappy to find Jacqueline. It would put her in danger --- great danger --
I can almost feel your doubt about what I'm saying, Mary.
I can't give up looking for her, Mrs. Redi, no matter what you're hinting at.
I have no intention whatsoever of hinting. Your sister, Mary, is a murderess. She killed Irving August -- stabbed him out of fright when he discovered where she was hiding.
I don't believe it.
I had to help get rid of the body. You saw it on the subway. And I warn you, Mary -- go back -- you don't know what you're doing, or what dreadful things you might bring about by looking for your sister. You go back to school - - go back and forget Jacqueline.
 I'm sorry to be late, Natalie.
 We haven't even begun tea yet.
Won't you pour, Mrs. Redi?
Sorry. I'm nervous. This is very trying for me.
I know. You introduced Jacqueline to us -- but how could you tell -
I should have known. She had no sincerity - no real belief.
Cream or lemon, Frances?
Lemon.
Miss Rowan, do you take cream?
Please, Natalie, would you mind pouring?
You shouldn't be nervous. There is nothing personal or vengeful in what we are about to do. We have only to make a decision.
But it can be such a horrible decision. I found peace here. I know that a large portion of that peace came because we are all pledged to non-violence. Now this --
Our founder must have known when he wrote these seemingly contradictory rules - the rule of non-violence and the law that whoever betrays us must die -- he must have known.
But I can't understand it.
Some of us, Frances, must believe without understanding.
Yes.
I went back through the history last night. I read about Johann Rozenquartz -- I read what he wrote --
I can quote it fully, Mrs. Redi. "We will avoid violence. For once undertaken, violence becomes its own master and can lead to either good or evil."
But he also wrote --
 I can quote that too; "Those who shall go out into the market place and let their tongues speak of us, and give knowledge of our being and our deeds, whom-so-ever doeth this shall die."
Since the founding of our order there have been six betrayals and six deaths. And now there is Jacqueline  she is the seventh.
You can't do anything to her-- you mustn't hurt her!
But she betrayed us, Frances.
She never betrayed us. She was only going to a doctor -- a psychiatrist.
But she told him, Frances. She told him about us.
 I know this is difficult for you. I know that you love her.
She didn't betray us!
Even if I believed that, I would still consider her dangerous. There is the matter of Irving August's death. Without consulting me, Mrs. Redi was illadvised enough to have the body removed by Leo and Durk. This makes us all a party to the crime. What if there is a trial? What if Jacqueline is asked how the body was removed? Do you think, Frances, she would keep silent?
It is a very real danger and one which forces our decision.
What about Judd -- he knows about us.
He will come to us of himself the man is evil.
And Jacqueline's sister?
I have taken care of Mary. I've spoken to her. She's going back to school.
Then it is decided. Leo and Durk and I will make our plans.
 Mary!
Mary This is so wonderful!
Your being here -- your coming so unexpectedly - it's a wish come true --
I want you to see my room. I want you to see all of it.
 But it's a small room, Jason.
It's grown big with time -- I've lived here with the Romari's for ten years -- the room's become part of me. I want you to see it  to know me better.
My books --
My furniture --
My window - - through which I see the world.
 It's beautiful -- that searchlight - the stars --
It's not a searchlight  it's a sword blade cutting the blue cloak of a prince - not stars --
 Jason, I'm going back to Highcliffe. I came to say good-by.
 I thought your coming up here to the third floor to see me -that it was your advent into my world. It turns out to be good-by. Why?
I have to go -
But you're happy here -- you like your work -
It isn't that -- you said, "have to go." What could compel you --
Don't make me tell you, Jason.
I thought myself your friend, Mary. Just good-bye isn't enough for a friend.
 I had begun to write again -that's whet I was doing when you came in.
It's because of Jacqueline  I can't go on looking for her --
You went to see Mrs. Redi... She told you something -- what was it?
Jacqueline is a murderess she killed a man.
 And you believe that?
I have to. It was Irving August -- everything Mrs. Redi said - it fits in with what I saw - she even knew I'd seen his body on the subway.
If it is true  there's all the more reason for you to find Jacqueline.
And Gregory -- he loves her.
He loves you, Mary, and you'll have to tell him.
He's Jacqueline's husband. I can't
You can't tell him -- you can't even dream of loving him --    you feel guilty for not having had love enough for Jacqueline to save her from whatever it was that took her away -- I know that feeling.
But you've got to tell him about Jacqueline - if only for the practical reason that he's a lawyer and will know what to do. I'm going to phone him.
She's got to be found. That's the first step. She's got to be found so that she can give herself up to the police.
We've tried so long to find her.
Judd could tell us -- if he would.
Do you think he knows about this?
 I don't know.
He's clever and he's cautious in his way. If he knew I think he'd advise her to do what I want - surrender herself to the police stand trial  I don't think he knows.
We could tell him.
Could you find him?
I suppose so. I can pick him up somewhere.
Jason, I sometimes wonder you're so sweet to me - so kind and sympathetic -- I don't know how I can ever thank you.
Thank me? You don't need to thank me.
 What's that?
 Verse -- verse that I wrote. I need it.
 Don't bother going up. I can do this all night, Jason. Watch.
Following me to find Jacqueline?
 Uhhuh.
Well, it won't work. Love and understanding won't make a good detective out of a recalcitrant poet.
 Actually I want to ask two favors of you -- one as a poet     one as a detective.
It sounds strange, and I'm going to be very wary.
Some time ago you spoke about my writing again. I want your help. I'd like you to bring this to your publisher.
This is curious, Jason. Half the time you talk as if Shakespeare were not fit to tie your shoelaces; now this sudden humility.
I should like people to read what I've written.
And this poetry  like the poetry you wrote before extols the passion and beauty of life?
It goes beyond that. It praises the goodness of God and the greatness of all His works.
 I hope it finds as much favor as your other book -- but somehow I doubt it -- the time is out of tune.
Why not let your publisher judge that?
Wait - there is that other favor.
I'd forgotten.
Tell me where Jacqueline is - we've got to find her.
 You don't expect me to do that do you?
Yes. When I tell you.
 Tell me what?
You'll have good enough sense to tell us where she is - when you know she's a murderess. She killed a man.
Tell me, why this sudden desire to publish  to awaken like Byron and find yourself famous.
I think it's time.
No other reason  no woman not the little Miss Gibson?
Perhaps.
 I'll do all I can to help. I'll go to my publisher tomorrow.
Wait. I'll call her.
Jacqueline, this is Judd.
Jacqueline.
Who is it?
Judd. I'm here with your sister. Come on down.
Mary!
Jacqueline.
It's all right.
You're safe. Nothing is going to hurt you.
Your husband seems very sure of that.
Yes. I'm very sure there's only one way to protect you -- to help you you've got to come with    us-- let me do all that I can as a lawyer to straighten out Irving August's death.
You know?
Yes.
You must come with us, darling. You must let us help you.
 For me - this seems to be the end of a delightful relationship.
 Here, this will put some life into you.
 It's like coming back to life.
Jacqueline, it would be so much easier if you would tell me just what happened. I'd know what to do for you.
Please, Jacqueline.
You know about the Palladists -- you know who they are -- what they are. I was one of them.
Jacqueline was always a sensationalist, trying to seize onto something -- anything -- in order to find happiness. Through Mrs. Redi she stumbled onto the Palladist movement - it appealed to her.
 I wasn't happy with them -- wanted to break away  was miserable. I went to Louis for help. They felt that I had betrayed them. They wanted me to die -- to kill myself. They kept me locked up at La Jeunesse. I was there such a long time.
You can Imagine the effect of such imprisonment on Jacqueline.
I was terrified. The darkness in the corners of the room --the little noises. Then one night the door opened -- a man came in tiptoeing in. I had a scissors in my hand -- I struck at him, I ran away. He was lying in the hall with the blood around him.
 Don't. We know what happened. Don't go on.
Any court in the land would understand. We'll wait a few days -- let you rest -- then we'll go to the police.
It will all be over in such a little while, Jacqueline, and everything will be all right again. Drink your coffee.
I thought I might close up the apartment -- maybe get a place in Connecticut.
You'd love that, Jackie. Remember that last summer with Mother in the Berkshires? You used to help the gardener.
Yes. You could become a country wife -- fool around with petunias and pullets.
It will be fun meeting Gregory every night at the station.
No.
All right Jacqueline, I thought you'd like it. We could just stay on at the apartment.
I never liked the apartment.
I like it. I've always loved the story -- man, knowing that he couldn't have the woman he loved and wooing her for his friend. We're friends, aren't we, Gregory?
It's been a hard evening for both of you. Perhaps you'd better take Jacqueline to your room, Mary.
Good night, Jacqueline -- good night, Mary.
Good night.
 I'm afraid this is no time to play Cyrano, my friend. What was in your mind?
I wanted to get things clear for Jacqueline. Let her know --
Let her know what?
That you love Mary.
She'll have to know some time.
Not from me.
I suppose, Jason, that you'll speak for your friend --  -- and your poetry will speak for you.
Perhaps
Good-bye, darling. I'll only be gone until three.
Good-bye.
If you get lonely, go down and see Mrs. Romari. I told her you were staying with me.
I won't get lonely.
You'll be all right?
Yes.
Louis Judd! I'm amazed to see you.
I'm sorry, Natalie. I wouldn't have disturbed you if it weren't for a matter of grave concern to me.
 I thought nothing concerned you, Louis.
Is it about Jacqueline?
 No. She's no longer under my care.
I don't know how to begin this, Natalie. Perhaps it's best to just plunge in. I want to join you.
 We always knew you'd come to us, Louis.
But I'm not coming to you out of deep conviction, I'm coming to you out of loss. I no longer can believe in the power and the rightness of things that are called good.
I never thought you did.
I've talked nonsense. I've scoffed and hooted -- but somewhere very deep down in me, I always felt that good held the balance of power.
You're even sentimental about it. What made you change your mind?
These. They're Jason's poems, and they've been rejected by m publisher.
This is incredible I It must be some sort of a joke.
I'm very, very serious.
 But you have never liked Jason. You always laughed at him - -quarreled with him --
And I love and admire him more than any man I ever knew. I read these poems. He's lost his talent and his was a really great gift. What I have to do today -- to bring him this rejected manuscript -will be the most disheartening thing I have ever done and the most disillusioning.
 This is the most amusing thing I have ever heard and with a bit of gossip to season it  your failure with Jacqueline. Has she returned to her husband?
 No, she's with her sister,
Here comes a candle To light you to bed Here comes a chopper To chop off your head.
 Yes, this is Mary...
But she couldn't have gone out. No. Are you sure it wasn't Jason she went with, or Mr. Ward? Two men? No.
I'll get home as soon as I can, Mr. Romari.
Children, I want you to be very good and very quiet while I see Mrs. Wheeler a moment. She's going to take over this class for a while.
Why
Because I have something very important to do.
What?
I'll be right back with Mrs. Wheeler.
When?
The acceptance of a secret is an obligation and in this case my dear, the obligation carried with it the necessity of dying if one betrayed that secret. You understand that don't you?
Yes, I understand.
Then, you also understand that you must die.
No.
Jacqueline, you have spoken so often of ending it all, I can't understand why this should be so difficult for you. You have only to drink a little.
Yes, Jacqueline. You were always talking suicide - - of ending your life when you wanted to.
When I wanted to.
It doesn't matter. You want to now. You should want to. It's your obligation, your duty.
You have only to stretch out your hand, take up the glass and drink a little.
It won't hurt.
 No. No. No.
Both Harrison and Conroy read your stuff. They felt as I did --old fashioned sentiment -- weak --
You take this all very well, Jason. I thought you'd be much more bitter, but tell me - why is it you were suddenly moved to publish? You wanted to bring fame to lay at her feet. And now?
I don't suppose you'll ever tell her, will you?
She is very young -- I have an old habit of failure. It would be a bad habit to bring to a marriage.
A book of successful verse might have changed that, eh?
It might have.
You have a strange kind of courage, Jason. Perhaps you have courage enough to hear what I have been keeping from you all these years.
That girl you loved - that other patient of mine - she didn't disappear. She's in an asylum -a horrible, raving thing. I never wanted you to know.
-and all the while you've been my friend.
 May I have some water? I'm thirsty.
Drink.
No.
You won't get any water and you won't get any rest. You may as well drink.
There's nothing to live for. Jacqueline. Remember  you gave me La Jeunesse.
Yes.
It may not mean anything to you, Jacqueline but what about your youth, your beauty? It's all going, and you were proud. Prouder than I ever was of my dancing Jacqueline. I remember when this happened -  This robbed me of my dancing robbed me of my skill. I remember how lost I was until I found peace. You have lost that peace, Jacqueline. You have betrayed evil. There's nothing left.
There's my husband.
 Little you care about him.
No. No.
If you like, I'll go with you to dinner.
I'd like that.
Jason.
I can't find Gregory. I've been trying to find him.
What's wrong, Mary?
Jacqueline. Mr. Romari phoned me. She went out this afternoon with two men he'd never seen before.
They may have been friends of hers.
No, She wouldn't have gone with anyone unless she were compelled. All these months of hiding have made her frightened of the streets and people. I wonder --
What?
They may have found her.  Mrs. Cortez - this morning I told her Jacqueline was no longer under my care.
Would they hurt her?
I don't know.
You'd better go to your room, Mary and wait for us.
Go ahead, Jacqueline Go ahead!
It is late -
 Drink Jacqueline! Drink! You've got to drink. There's nothing else. Drink! Drink! Drink! I can't stand this. You've got to.
 No, no. I couldn't see you die. You were so good to me - so good to me. I was never happier than when I worked for you  never.
You can go. The decision was against violence. There may be another decision  today - tomorrow  and we will find you, but now you can go.
I told you you could go.
Please. Please. Let me down. There's a man following me.
 I shouldn't wonder, Babe. I shouldn't wonder.
I'm serious  help me.
I'll help you to a beer and a sandwich. Come along, babe, come along.
Now that you've hounded and worried her half to death, you don't oven know where she is. At least tell me, has she been here?
She was here for a little while.
And what happened?
Nothing. She left here an hour or so ago. She may even be home now. Why don't you try it?
All right, Jason.
 The devil worshipers -- the lovers off evil. It's a joke-a pathetic little joke.
We've not asked your opinion.
I propose to give it to you anyway. You're a poor, wretched group of people who have taken the wrong turning.
Wrong? Who knows what is right or wrong?
I can prove you wrong so simply Listen: (he bows his head and recites very quietly) Our father who art in heaven Hallowed be thy name Thy kingdom come, thy will be done On earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day, our daily bread Forgive us our trespasses as we Forgive those who trespass against us. Lead us not into temptation But deliver us from evil For thine is the kingdom, the power And the glory forever. Amen.
 Who are you?
I'm Mimi -- I'm dying.
No!
Yes. It's been quiet, oh ever so quiet. I hardly move, yet it keeps coming all the time -closer and closer. I rest and rest and yet I am dying.
And you don't want to die. I've always wanted to die -- always.
I'm afraid.
I'm tired of being afraid - of waiting.
Why wait?
 I'm not going to wait. I'm going out -- laugh, dance --do all the things I used to do.
And then?
I don't know.
 You will die.
 Death, why hast thou made life so hard to bear, Taking my lady hence? East thou no whit or shame? The youngest flowers and the most fair Thou hast pluck'd. away and the world wanteth it.
That was Dr. Judd. He was phoning to say that, Jacqueline is on her way here -
Gregory  you'd better take Jacqueline with you tonight.
It's what I should have done yesterday. I'll take her away somewhere where she can rest.
Mary.
No. Stay that way. I want to talk to you. I love you - you know that?
 Yes.
Perhaps, later, when things are settled, when Jacqueline's well again -- maybe we can arrange things differently.
I've never loved any one before, Gregory, and I do love you - you must know it -- but Jacqueline's my sister  whom I had lost and have found again....   
I know  I shouldn't have told you
No, I'm glad....at least I've heard you say it...
I hate people who try to peddle comfort. But,Mary, you shouldn't mourn for Jacqueline. Life for her was full of the agony of a disordered mind. It's better this way.
I keep telling myself that.
Well, tell yourself, Mary, that this is a world that doesn't pass with the passing of any one of us. All three of us are going to start afresh.
You and I have new hopes  and new plans can come from them
Not I - I am alive, yet every hope I had is dead,  Death can be good. Death can be happy.. If I were really dying I could speak like Cyrano - "My courage like a white plume"  and all the other lovely words with which he greeted death. Then perhaps you might understand,
(reaching over to touch  I understand.
 Good. We all understand each other. You, Gregory and I. We all know. There is sunlight in the streets and work to do. Both of you - you're off to work.
Off with you. You can't sit here in this cellar with the sun shining.
Ah! Good! They have all gone! Now you and I can laugh and joke again.
