I loved my father and he taught me many useful things. But he didn't teach me anything at all about women. There was a time when I resented that. And then, one day, it occurred to me that perhaps he didn't know all that much about the fairer sex.
One look at my mother and I had conclusive proof.
Here's what I'm going to do, son. I'll give it to you straight. I'm not going to fill your head with stories about fictitious characters like Santa Claus or the Easter Bunny or God. There's only one thing you need to worry about in this life and that's women. And I'm going to teach you everything I know about the art of meeting, courting and seducing 'em. Don't worry about anything else, there's nothing more important. Reading, writing, toilet training you can learn later in life.
Clothes maketh or unmaketh the man. What were you thinking when you put that on this morning? That you were going to spend the day in the sandpit?
 We'll take the best you've got.  The finer the threads, the more inclined the ladies will be to tear them off. I know, don't try to make sense of their logic. They have none.
Of course, it's not all about clothes. It's the way you carry yourself too. You've gotta make a conscious effort to be relaxed but in control in all situations. And a little playful. Go for an expression where you're suppressing mild amusement. But don't overdo it. You want to look dignified at all times.
Damnit, son! Are you not listening to a word I say?
Now meeting the right person is really all about spending enough time in the right places. So we're going to a new preschool today. One in a higher socioeconomic suburb.
Well?
You like the girl over there?
Uh ... yeah. I think there's enough geek genes in our family. It's time to diversify.
And avoid that bitchy girl. She may be pretty but believe me, it's not worth the trouble. You definitely don't want to get involved with someone like your mother.
Stay away from the French girl too. French women have no morals.
It might be great for a bit of slap and tickle after midnight when the only meat your buddies are getting is at a kebab shop. But there's no word in French for "fidelity" and what we're looking for is a serious relationship. I mean, what you're looking for.  I'm fine.
She's popular, good-looking. She seems friendly enough. I think Barbie there might be worth a try.
Go and talk to her.
C'mon! It's better to get shot down than wonder "What if?"
Just show an interest in the things that interest her and you'll have plenty to talk about.
Would you like to go to the toyshop later on? You can pick out a nice fairy costume. What are you doing to me, boy?!
We need to toughen up your image now. Most girls are attracted to bad boys. See if you can start some sort of altercation with her. Understand?
Well that was over the top but at least you got her attention. And it's better to be known as a jerk rather than a fruitcake. The good news is you now have the opportunity to apologise. If you can feign sincerity and a desperation for forgiveness, you should be able to endear yourself to her.  Leave the price tag on. We want her to know how much we paid.
I'm trying to do the right thing by you and you mess everything up! You're as incompetent as ... the government film funding bodies!
Molly loves her flowers.      Thank you.
Oh.   No problem. They were my idea.
Well it was a very nice gesture.
We're going to lunch at the cafe on the corner. Would you and Mike like to join us?
Absolutely.      We'll see you there.
Great work my friend! Looks like we're in for a double date.
And the perfect chance for you to learn from a master at work.
They seem to like each other.
They certainly do.
Molly has a birthday party coming up. Would you like to come?
Absolutely.
I'm thinking about a sleepover? Or is it too soon?
A "sleepover" would be great. No such thing as "too soon" when you're with the right person.
What are you doing?!
Getting to know you. Before the "sleepover".
I meant Mike coming over to spend the night. Not his Dad.
Oh.
It's better to get shot down than wonder "What if?"?
I now have the opportunity to apologise and endear myself to her?
Yeah! Yeah, you're right.   I've taught you well!
