Hurry! We hear a loud BANG followed by muffled CURSING from below. Jane offers a hand down to ERIK SELVIG  who emerges as well, rubbing his head.
Oh-- watch your head.
Thanks. So what's this "anomaly" of yours supposed to look like?
It's a little different each time. Once it looked like, I don't know, melted stars, pooling in a corner of the sky. But last week it was a rolling rainbow ribbon--
Hey, Darcy. Pass up the bubbly and my gloves, will you? Intern DARCY LEWIS  hands Jane a bottle of Champagne and a pair of gloves through the window. Jane passes it to Selvig to hold while she pulls on the old gloves -- too large and masculine for her small hands. He starts to unwrap the foil, and she stops his hand with an excited grin.
Not until you see it!
 I recognize those. Think how proud he'd be to see you now. Jane's grin fades to a sad smile.
Thank you.
For what?
The benefit of the doubt. The two stare out at the sky expectantly. A long beat while they scan the skies. Nothing. Jane's worried.
It's never taken this long before. Darcy calls up from the front seat.
Can I turn on the radio?
 Sure, if you like rocking out to KFRM, "All agriculture, all the time." Worried, Jane heads back down into the vehicle.
The anomalies are always precipitated by geomagnetic storms. She shows him a complicated CHART she's drawn in the book, tracking occurrences and patterns.
The last seventeen occurrences have been predictable to the minute... I just don't understand. Something catches Darcy's eye out the driver's side mirror. She adjusts it. In the distance, ODD GLOWING CLOUDS form in the skies over the Northeastern end of the desert.
Jane? Jane SHUSHES her, leafs through her notes. The bottle of champagne begins to vibrate.
There's got to be some new variable... Or an equipment malfunction... The lights and equipment in the SUV begin to FLICKER around them. The computer monitors SQUELCH with static.
I don't think there's anything wrong with your equipment... The champagne bottle starts to RATTLE noisily now as it shakes more violently. Jane and Selvig notice.
Jane?
What?!
I think you want to see this. Darcy points out the window. Jane and Selvig look out. Over the desert --
Holy. Shatner.
That's your "subtle" aurora?!
No-- yes! Let's go!
Isn't this great?! A thought strikes her.
You're seeing it too, right? I'm not crazy?
That's debateable. Put your seat belt on!
You've gotta get us closer so I can take a magnetic reading. Darcy laughs.
Yeah, right! Good one!  Oh God, you're serious...
You want those college credits or not?
Keep the credits. I'll intern at Burger King.
What are you doing?!
Saving our lives! Jane grabs the wheel, jerks it hard the other way. They struggle for control, when the headlights fall on --
I think that was legally your fault.
Get the first aid kit. Darcy heads back inside the SUV as Jane, concerned, kneels next to the man. Selvig hovers, protectively. She gently turns his head to the light, and we see him clearly for the first time. He is magnificently handsome, long blonde hair flowing around his classically sculpted features. She cups her hands around his face, as if willing the life back into him.
Come on, big guy. Do me a favor and don't be dead, okay? Open your eyes and look at me. Suddenly, he GROANS, and she's startled, then relieved, as his eyes flutter open. She looks deep into his confused, azure eyes, which at last focus on her own. Locking onto them. For a moment, they each forget to breathe. The connection is broken as Darcy returns with the kit. She freezes when she sees how gorgeous the man is.
Wow. Does he need CPR? Because I know CPR. A flustered Jane smooths her hair and sits back on her heels. She looks up at Selvig. Back to being a scientist.
--are dilating. That's a good sign.
We still have to get him to a hospital.
Immediately, Jane. Jane sighs and nods, regretfully watching the storm EVAPORATE above their heads. A thought strikes her.
Where did he come from? They exchange puzzled looks, as we move up through the last glowing remnants of the storm, and into:
Questions, they've always asked questions -- this race called man, on this planet they call earth. Passionately longing to know how they are connected to the heavens.
In ages past, they looked to us as gods, for indeed so many times we saved them from calamity. We tried to show them how their world was but one of the Nine Realms of the Cosmos, linked to all others by the branches of Yggdrasil... We pull back until we see it -- YGGDRASIL. Immense, sprawling, like a quasar or a nebula twisted into the vague shape of a TREE, its branches of glowing energy stretching out into the black void of space.
...the Worlds Tree. Nine Realms in a universe of wonder, beauty, and terror that they barely comprehended. We move in through Yggdrasil, until we reach what looks like a galaxy, slowly spinning before us.
But for all their thirst for knowledge, they let our lessons fall into myth and dreams. Where did he come from? He came from us, the proudest race of warriors the Worlds have ever seen. He came from this -- the greatest Realm the universe has ever known. We move through the galaxy's mists and astral matter, then over and up, through a band of prismatic color to reveal what's on the other side:
He came... from Asgard!
Stares out at his kingdom. The ravens fly up to the balcony, land at his side.
Do you think he's ready?
He thinks he is. He has his father's confidence.
He'll need his father's wisdom.
And his humility? Odin reacts.
Thor won't be alone. Loki will be at his side to give him counsel. Have faith in your sons.
Yes, but Thor's still a boy. He could be a great King... Odin stops, notices HIS HAND SHAKING. It seems to be out of synch temporally with the rest of the world, leaving a trail as it moves. He stares at it determinedly, concentrating, trying to stop the strange event through the force of his sheer will.
For once, our son needs something we cannot provide.
I can fight it a little longer...
No. You've put it off too long! I worry for you. He touches her cheek.
I've destroyed demons and monsters, devastated whole worlds, laid waste to mighty kingdoms, and still you worry for me?
Always.
Not today. Now come kiss your king... while I'm still king. He pulls her close, and they kiss.
Another!
We follow from behind and see at the other end, massively shadowed on one of the great banners, the shape of two great horns. As Thor approaches, the horn shapes move, and then, from the shadows at the side, emerges LOKI, wearing his horned headpiece. Like Thor, he is dressed for a great ceremony. They stand by a brazier at the foot of steps that lead up to the crowded throne room.
Have you ever known me to be nervous?
There was the time in Nornheim...
That wasn't nerves, brother. It was the rage of battle. How else could I have fought my way through a hundred warriors and pulled us out alive? The Attendant approaches with another goblet of wine for Thor.
As I recall, I was the one who veiled us in smoke to ease our escape.
Some do battle, others just do tricks. The Attendant stifles a laugh. Loki notices, doesn't like it. He gestures towards the goblet in the Attendant's hand. EELS pour over the sides of the goblet, slithering out and across the terrified Attendant's hand. He SCREAMS, hurls the goblet to the ground. Loki chuckles.
Loki... Loki gestures to the writhing eels on the ground. They turn back to spilled wine, the illusion shattered.
Now that was just a waste of good wine.
Just a bit of fun.  Right, my friend? The Attendant isn't so sure. Thor dons his EAGLE-WINGED
 Nice feathers.
You don't really want to start this again, do you, Cow?
I was being sincere!
You're incapable of sincerity.
Am I? He looks his brother in the eye, all pretense lost.
I've looked forward to this day as long as you have. You're my brother and my friend. Sometimes I'm envious, but never doubt that I love you.
Thank you. The two brothers take in the moment a beat, then:
Give us a kiss.
Stop. Thor makes the final adjustments to his ceremonial wear.
How do I look?
Like a king. They hear the blast of a CEREMONIAL HORN.
It's time.
You go ahead. Loki casts him a wary look.
I'll be along. Go on. Loki heads inside the palace without his brother.
Thank you, love. 
Now who'd like to polish my sword for me? The giddy Maidens eagerly raise their hands. HOGUN stands staring ahead grimly, his hands folded in front of him, amidst the hustle and bustle of the ATTENDANTS and the ceremony preparations going on around him. A HELPFUL ATTENDANT approaches him and starts to polish his armor. Hogun turns his head, gives him a look. Intimidated, the Attendant quickly backs away. From behind, we see a WOMAN IN CEREMONIAL ARMOR take off her SWORD and set it on a table, then her SHIELD, then several HIDDEN DAGGERS and small, yet intimidating WEAPONS. We reveal that it's SIF, looking radiant. She eyes the weapons on the table.
 I'll miss you.
I hope this goes quickly. I'm famished.
Are you attached to that pretty face of yours? Because one more word, and you won't be.
 My, we are hungry, aren't we? The others laugh, save Hogun. Fandral turns to him.
Go on, Hogun. Smile. You can do it. Even you, Hogun the Grim. Just one smile. Hogun stares at him grimly.
All right, half a smile. Look, forget the smile, just show some teeth.
Fandral, is it true the famous Warriors Three are ready to meet any challenge?
Name it, Lady Sif.
Keep your mouth shut.
A cold BREEZE blows past them.
It's all right to be nervous.
Why does everyone keep saying that? I'm not nervous!
You may be able to fool the rest of
...but never you. I know.
Thor, just remember that you have something even the great Allfather never had.
And what is that?
Me for a mother. She smiles.
Now don't keep your father waiting. Frigga leaves.
 Where is he?
He said he'd be along. Sif realizes the truth, shakes her head in disapproval.
What?
He wants to make an entrance.
Well, if he doesn't show up soon, he shouldn't bother. Odin looks like he's ready to feed him to his ravens.
I wouldn't worry. Father will forgive him. He always does.
Roars up into the hall, Thor strides cockily into the hall behind it, catching it behind his back. The CROWD erupts in CHEERS. Thor spins his hammer with a flourish, holds it up before the crowd, basking in the moment, relishing the adoration, whipping his audience up into a frenzy.
Oh, please. Odin watches from the front, not liking this showy display.
He raises Gungnir before him.
Gungnir. Its aim is true, its power strong. With it I have defended Asgard and the lives of the innocent across the Nine Realms since the time of the Great Beginning. And though the day has come for a new King to wield his own weapon -- that duty remains the same. Thor Odinson, my heir, my first-born.
So long entrusted with this mighty hammer, Mjolnir. Forged in the heart of a dying star, from the sacred metal of Uru. Only one may lift it. Only one is worthy. Who wields this hammer commands the lightning and the storm. Its power has no equal -- as a weapon, to destroy, or as a tool, to build. It is a fit companion for a King.
One of the creatures lifts the Casket off its stand and turns to go. But, as they do, the intricate latticework behind the Casket starts to separate and retract, revealing something standing in the shadows behind it. As the creatures walk away, a fiery glow rises behind them. They turn back around. Now it's their turn to SCREAM.
Today I entrust you with the greatest honor in all the Nine Realms. The sacred throne of Asgard. I have sacrificed much to achieve peace. So, too, must a new generation sacrifice to maintain that peace. Responsibility, duty, honor. These are not merely virtues to which we must aspire. They are essential to every soldier and to every King. The Crowd and the Warriors Three start to shiver and rub their limbs for warmth in the increasingly cold air of the hall. Thor turns back to face his father. Odin looks upon his son with pride.
Thor Odinson, do you swear to guard the Nine Realms?
I swear.
Do you swear to preserve the peace?
I swear.
Do you swear to cast aside all selfish ambition and pledge yourself only to the good of all the Realms? Beat.
I swear.
Then on this day, I, Odin Allfather, proclaim you-- Odin hesitates, noticing a strange sight before him. ICE creeps across the surface of the large banners around the hall, making an eerie CRACKING sound. Thor, his comrades, and the crowd see it too.
Shattered and melting ICE is strewn about the floor. We don't see the blue-skinned bodies of the Frost Giants clearly, just catch glimpses of their twisted and smoldering remains on the floor. They've just lost a savage battle. Badly. Amidst them, shrouded in shadow, stands the black metal creature, a fiery glow coming from within it. It is THE DESTROYER. It holds the Casket in its hands.
The Destroyer.
I've never been inside the Vault before. It's said the Tesseract was once held here.
Shush! Odin surveys the destruction.
The Jotuns must pay for what they've done!
They have paid with their lives. The Destroyer did its job, and the Casket is safe. All is well.
"All is well?!" They broke into the Weapons Vault! If the Frost Giants had stolen even one of these
But they didn't.
I want to know why they--
And if you hadn't taken it from them they would have laid waste to all the Nine Realms!
I have a truce with Laufey, the Jotun King.
He just broke your truce! We must act! Odin turns to Sif and the Warriors Three.
Leave us. Thor's comrades exit. Odin eyes Thor, as Loki watches.
And what action would you take?
March into Jotunheim as you once did, teach them a lesson, break their spirits so they'll never dare try to cross our borders again!
You're thinking only as a warrior!
This was an act of war!
It was the act of but a few, doomed to fail.
They got this far!
We will find the breach in our defenses. It will be found, and it will be sealed.
As King of Asgard, I would--
You are not King. Not yet. Thor sees in his father's face that he's pushed this as far as he can. He backs away, then leaves, pushing through the doors so hard that they SLAM backwards behind him. Odin watches him go.
From across the room, Loki watches him.
Redecorating, are we? Volstagg surveys the overturned tables and food, aghast.
What's this -- ?!
I told you they'd cancel it.
We thought that was just you being your normal cheery self. Volstagg looks about the floor, despairing.
All this food -- so innocent, cast to the ground. It breaks the heart! Thor strides away from them to the far end of the hall. Loki calmly moves towards him.
It's unwise to be in my company right now, brother.
Who said I was wise?
 This was to be my day of triumph.
It will come. In time.
Yes, exactly!
But there's nothing we can do without defying Father. Thor considers this, looks at his hammer, a gleam in his eye. Loki can guess what he's thinking, grows concerned.
No... stop there! I know that look!
It's the only way to ensure the safety of our borders.
It's madness!
Madness? What sort of madness?
Nothing! Thor was making a jest!
The safety of our Realm is no jest. We're going to Jotunheim.
What?!
Thor, of all the laws of Asgard, this is one you must not break. Loki looks on, intrigued by the proceedings.
This isn't like a journey to Earth, where you summon a little lightning and thunder and the mortals worship you as a god. This is Jotunheim.
And if the Frost Giants don't kill you, your Father will!
My father fought his way into Jotunheim, defeated their armies, and took their Casket! We'd just be looking for answers.
It is forbidden! Thor sizes up his friends, smiles. He proceeds to make his case with enthusiasm and charismatic conviction.
My friends, have you forgotten all that we've done together? He turns to Fandral.
Who brought you into the sweet embrace of the most exotic maidens in all of Yggdrasil?
You did.
You did. / You did. He turns to Sif.
And who proved wrong all who scoffed at the idea that a young maiden could be one of the fiercest warriors this Realm has ever known?
I did.
Come on. You're not going to let my brother and me take all the glory, are you? Loki looks startled.
What?
You are coming with me...
Yes, of course! I won't let my brother march into Jotunheim alone. I will be at his side.
And I.
And I.
And I. The Warriors Three fight together.
I fear we'll live to regret this.
If we're lucky.
We must first find a way to get past Heimdall.
That will be no easy task. It's said the Gatekeeper can see a single dew drop fall from a blade of grass a thousand worlds away.
And he can hear a cricket passing gas in Niffelheim.
Jest not! He heareth all!
Please. Getting past him should be simple enough now, since he seems to be letting Frost Giants sneak by under his nose. Volstagg, terrified, calls out to the sky.
Forgive him! He meaneth no offense! Loki rejoins the group as Thor leads them onward.
Keep your weapons sheathed and your mouths closed. This is going to take subtlety and sincerity, not brute strength. Leave it to me. Loki dismounts and steps forward.
You're not dressed warmly enough. Thor, Loki, and the others trade looks.
I'm sorry?
The freezing cold of Jotunheim. It will kill you all in time, even Thor.
Or can hear a cricket passing gas in Niffelheim? Fandral looks gob-smacked.
That was just a bit of a jest, really... Loki goes into damage control.
You must be mistaken. We're not--
For ages have I guarded Asgard and kept it safe from those who would do it harm. In all that time, never has an enemy slipped by my watch -- until this day. I wish to know how that happened.
Then tell no one where we've gone until we've returned. Thor walks past Heimdall as the Gatekeeper lets the group pass. Volstagg walks beside the frustrated Loki, needles him.
What happened? Your silver tongue turn to lead?
Get me off this bridge before it cracks under your girth. Volstagg and Fandral share a laugh.
Be warned. I will honor my sworn oath to protect this Realm as its Gatekeeper. If your return threatens the safety of Asgard, Bifrost will remain closed to you. You'll be left to die in the cold wastes of Jotunheim.
I have no plans to die today.
None do. Heimdall inserts his sword into the control panel, and the apparatus of the Observatory starts up.
All is ready. You may pass.
Couldn't you just leave the bridge open for us?
To keep this bridge open would unleash the full power of the Bifrost and destroy Jotunheim with you upon it.
Ah. Never mind, then. Thor starts towards the Bifrost, turns back to the others, grins.
Come on. Don't be bashful. The others join him at his side, then step towards the Bifrost. Their bodies stretch towards the maelstrom, changing shape, as if every atom of their being is being elongated by the pull of it. In an instant, they're jerked off the platform and inside the vortex.
Come on, big fella. Up...! With an effort, Thor pulls the burly warrior back onto the ice and, tremendously relieved, he proclaims:
This belt! This belt is now my lucky belt! I will never remove it! Even when bathing!
You bathe? Thor and the others turn and stare out in horror and wonder at the frozen alien wasteland before them. The whole planet is a massive flattened ring of jagged ice, slowly breaking apart. Huge CHUNKS OF ICE calve away from its outer edges and float off into space. The planet's icy surface cracks and melts as far as the eye can see. The ruins of a Jotun city lies in the distance.
We shouldn't be here.
Too late now.
Actually, it's not. We could turn right around, hop back to Asgard, share a mug by the fire. Could be nice. Thor ignore him, heads off. Loki looks around, anxious.
Perhaps we should wait. Thor turns back to his brother.
For what?
To survey the enemy. To gauge their strengths and weaknesses from a distance.
I'm liking that. Gauging, surveying. Particularly the distance part.
We know all we must. It's time to act. Thor heads on. Reluctantly, the others follow.
He's just got to swing his hammer...
It feels good, doesn't it? To be together again, adventuring on another world?
Adventuring? Is that what we're doing?
What would you call it?
Freezing.
Starving.
Whining.
How about a song to lift our spirits? The others groan.
No, not that!
Please don't make us sing again!
If I have to listen to Volstagg's singing voice one more time, I'll fall on my own sword!
Well, now I'm on board. She and Thor share a grin. The party reaches the edge of the city -- its ancient structures of jade and ice melting and crumbling, ravaged by warfare long ago. A TEMPLE lies before them, across a central plaza.
Where are they?
Hiding. As cowards always do. Thor leads the others onwards towards the central plaza. Loki reluctantly follows. They don't notice as SHADOWY FIGURES move in the shadows of the structures nearby.
What is your business here, Asgardian? The Jotun's voice itself sounds like cracking ice.
I speak only to your King. Not to his foot soldiers.
Then speak. Thor turns towards the source in a balcony of the temple, where LAUFEY sits, veiled in shadow, behind a cascading waterfall. The Jotun King is ancient, noble, powerful -- too proud to reveal even a hint of the years of suffering he and his people have endured.
I am Laufey, King of this Realm.
And I am--
We know who you are, Odinson. Why have you brought the stench of your blood into my world?
I demand answers. Laufey stands, sizing up Thor, tries to piece this together.
You "demand?"
How did your people get into Asgard?
The house of Odin is full of traitors. Sif and the Warriors Three exchange a puzzled look, disturbed by the Jotun King's words.
Do not dishonor my father's name with your lies.
Your father is a murderer and a thief. He stole what was ours, and left our world in ruins. We have the right to reclaim the Casket.
Not when you'd use it to make war against other Realms. Laufey laughs, cold, mocking.
And why have you come here? To make peace? You long for battle. You crave it. I see you for what you are, Thor Odinson. Nothing but a boy, trying to prove himself a man.
This boy has grown tired of your mockery. Thor takes a step towards Laufey. The other Jotuns step in front of Thor, blocking his path. We finally see the Frost Giants now -- terrifying, blue-skinned, standing eight feet tall. Loki moves next to his brother and quietly implores him.
Thor, stop and think. Look around you. We are outnumbered.
Know your place, brother...
You should listen to his counsel. You know not what your actions would unleash. Laufey steps out of the shadows.
But I do. Go now, while I still allow it. Thor simmers. Loki speaks up.
We will accept your most gracious offer. The others look to Thor imploringly. Thor stares Laufey down a beat -- then relents. He turns to leave. His comrades breathe a sigh of relief and follow, when a Frost Giant nearby mutters under his breath.
Run back home, little princess. Thor stops in his tracks. Loki goes white. He knows what's coming.
Damn. In one quick move, Thor pulls Mjolnir, swings it, and KNOCKS the Jotun clear across the plaza. The Asgardians reluctantly draw their weapons, gather into a circle around Thor. Volstagg looks around at the angry Jotuns approaching them.
Silly hammer! Has a mind of its own! ICE forms on the Jotuns' bodies, creating a FROZEN ARMOR around them, extending off the ends of their arms like SWORDS. One Giant does so directly in front of Fandral.
I'm hoping that's just decorative. Thor leaves the circle of Asgardians, swings at another Frost Giant. His comrades form another circle around him, separating him from the Jotuns, as he whirls his hammer around once and catches it with a cocky grin. He's enjoying this.
Next! Fandral calls to Volstagg and Hogun.
Well? What move, do you think?
I say we use "The Norn's Revenge."
At this close range? I think "The Alfheim Lunge" is a better move.
Shut up! Thor takes out yet another Frost Giant, then all hell breaks loose as the Asgardians and Jotuns begin to battle. A Jotun backs Hogun up against a wall of ice. As the Giant hurls an ice blade fist at him, the grim warrior swings his mace over his head, embedding it into the ice wall, and hoists himself up, dodging the Giant's blow and leaping over him. Hogun takes out a second approaching Frost Giant, spins back, dodges a swing from the first, then pounds the Jotun with his mace. Nearby, Sif expertly stabs one Jotun after another with her double-bladed staff. One knocks her viciously to the ground.
If you don't treat me like a lady, I won't act like a lady! She takes out the Jotun. Loki backs away from an approaching Jotun, finds himself at the edge of a deep crevasse. The Giant sees he's vulnerable, swipes at him. But the Jotun's arm passes right through him. The Giant stands there, confused, when THE REAL LOKI comes out from behind a structure and shoves the Giant into the crevasse below. The false Loki dissipates into nothingness.
 Pathetic. He turns back to the battle. Two Jotuns come at him from either side. He lets two daggers fly, felling both Giants at once. Laufey nods to one of his guards -- a massive Jotun BRUTE. The Brute leaps down from the balcony, icing himself up, then punches his giant fist into the ice beneath his feet. It's a long-range attack, causing PILLARS OF ICE to explode out in front of Hogun, sending the grim warrior flying back. Across the plaza, Thor easily dispatches some Jotuns.
Come on! At least make it a challenge for me! He sees the Brute coming at him. The huge Jotun lands a tremendous blow, sending Thor back across the ice. Thor rises, grins.
Now that's more like it! He throws Mjolnir with all his strength, knocking the Brute head over heels. Thor raises his hand. Mjolnir slows in mid-air, then flies back to his grasp.
 Ugly and stupid. Sif takes out a couple Frost Giants, but she's knocked to the ground by another. It raises its weapon above her. Hogun sees Sif in danger. He pulls a HIDDEN KNIFE from his sleeve and hurls it at Sif's attacker, hitting him square in the chest. The Jotun falls dead.
 I'm so glad I taught him how to do that! Volstagg grapples with a Frost Giant, getting a couple good hits in.
You may want to put some ice on that! The Frost Giant fights back, but Volstagg manages to grip in a headlock just as another comes up on him from behind. Volstagg fends him off, then turns the first one loose.
You may be taller, but I'm wider! Volstagg launches his mighty belly at the Jotun and sends him flying. Another Jotun grabs Volstagg, squeezing him tightly and sending him crashing to the ground.
It's not too late for you to surrender. Volstagg recovers and fights on. The Jotun grabs Volstagg's bare arm. The warrior's skin begins to freeze from the Jotun's grasp, a BLACKNESS spreading from it, necrotizing Volstagg's flesh. The warrior SHOUTS in pain.
Don't let them grab hold of you! He takes a swig, enjoying the brief respite, then rejoins the battle. Volstagg stabs his blade in a Giant's chest, but the sword stops mid ice layer. The Giant delivers a bone-breaking blow to Volstagg's face, and the warrior drops to one knee. Sif sees Volstagg in trouble and rushes towards him. In one quick move, she leaps up and off of Volstagg's back, using her boot to plunge Volstagg's blade deep into the Giant's chest, standing atop him as he falls backwards to the ground.
 Thank you, my lady. But I nearly had him!
Of course you did. Nearby, a Frost Giant forms a BARRAGE OF ICE BULLETS, hurling them at Sif. Sif raises her shield barely in time, as the bullets go pinging and ricocheting off it. She races into the group of Frost Giants who attacked her and takes them out.
Hang on! Volstagg swings his weapon, wildly hacking at the ice around Hogun's legs to free him. Hogun looks down, suddenly worried, as Volstagg's blade cuts deep -- and perilously close to hacking into Hogun's legs.
Watch the legs!
You really think your icicles are a match for Asgardian steel? Fandral lunges at the Giant. The Jotun knocks his blade away.
Fair enough. Fandral moves on him again, but the Giant grabs Fandral's sword and snaps it in half.
Could we stop just a moment while I get another sword? Fandral fights the Giant with his broken sword. The Jotun then lunges at Fandral, who ducks just in time, grabs hold of the Giant's sword and redirects it, stabbing the Giant through with his own weapon. The Jotun staggers back, then reaches down and swipes at a pool of water, sending up a spray that freezes in mid-air, forming into an ICE STALAGMITE. It impales Fandral, rendering him helpless.
Volstagg looks across the plaza and sees the impaled Fandral.
That's unfortunate. He hurries to his wounded comrade.
I may need a bit of help. Not a good look, is it?
Just try not to bleed.
How's the face?
Flawless. Volstagg begins to pull the bleeding Fandral off the ice stalagmite. Loki plunges two daggers into the chest of one of the Frost Giants. The Giant grabs hold of Loki's gloved wrists. Loki pulls his hands free of the gloves, which are still in the Giant's grasp, revealing Loki's skin beneath. The wounded Jotun sees his chance, grabs hold of Loki's bare arm. Loki looks at his arm, prepared for the worst. But instead of the blackness of necrotizing flesh, Loki's arm turns BLUE -- like the Frost Giant's own skin. The blueness spreads painlessly up Loki's arm. He stares at it, confused. The Frost Giant is thrown as well, distracted by the unexpected phenomenon. Loki takes advantage of the distraction, KICKS the Giant.
Come on! But when he hurls his hammer to take out a Jotun, the Frost Giants seize the opportunity. A group of Jotuns swarm Thor from all sides, keeping him separate from his weapon. Mjolnir falls to the ground. A Frost Giant desperately struggles to lift Mjolnir off the ground, to no avail. Now free, the wounded Fandral looks relieved as Volstagg slings him over his shoulder, and the warriors start to leave. From his balcony, Laufey looks upon the battlefield, decides it's time to pull out the big guns. He touches a wall of the palace. An ENERGY WAVE sweeps from his touch, across the wall of the palace, and down to the ground below. The Asgardians hear a foreboding CRACK OF ICE below their feet.
That can't be good.
Yes, it could! Might be an early spring! They look down, suddenly filled with dread when they see shadowy figures moving in the ice -- dozens of JOTUN WARRIORS awakening beneath the surface, rousing to join the battle. Loki turns to his brother, who battles a group of the Giants.
Thor, we must go! Thor, still without his hammer, fights his Jotun foes mercilessly, a man consumed by blood lust. Loki sees the look on his brother's face -- the savage thrill of the heat of battle.
Then go!
There are too many of them!
I can stop them! The others hesitate. Jotuns break up through the ice all around them.
Thor! But Thor ignores his comrades, continues fighting.
Run! Reluctantly, the group flees back toward the inner edge of the planet as the Giants break up through the ice and give chase. Thor battles valiantly, but there's just too many of them. The Frost Giants swarm him from all sides now, as he disappears beneath a pile of blue flesh and ice. After a
Forces its way up through the middle of the pile of Jotuns. He opens his hand, beckoning. One of Thor's attackers hears something ROARING up behind him. He whirls around -- BAM! -- Mjolnir nails him square in the face, then flies into Thor's outstretched hand. Thor raises the hammer up high, and brings it down on the ground with all his might. KRAKABOOM! Lightning strikes down from the sky, the hammer channeling the blast, firing the electricity out at the Jotuns around him. They're blasted back in a massive shockwave. The Jotuns convulse, drop dead to the ground.
What's Thor done?
Likely killed us all! As the Jotuns race towards the Asgardians, they open their mouths wide and breathe out an ICY FOG. The swirling mists quickly engulf the fleeing Asgardians before them. The Asgardians stand in the mist, unable to see. Hogun takes a step back, the ice cracking beneath him. They dare not move, for fear of falling through, into the void below. Thor sees he's put his friends in even greater danger. He raises Mjolnir high, SUMMONING THE WINDS. They lift him off the ground and carry him across the frozen wasteland to his comrades.
Loki, we have to see. Loki raises his arms, concentrates, the mists dissipating. But as they do, the Asgardians see before them the faces of the Frost Giants. And there are HUNDREDS of them -- too many, even for a Thunder God.
Astride his powerful, eight-legged steed SLEIPNIR. He's clad in battle armor, Gungnir in his hand -- an imposing sight.
Laufey. End this.
Your boy sought this out.
You're right. These are the actions of a boy. Treat them as such. You and I can stop this before there's further bloodshed. Unseen by Odin and the others, Laufey starts to form an ice blade at the end of his arm.
We are beyond diplomacy now, Allfather. He'll get what he came for -- war and death. Odin looks grim, determined.
So be it. Without warning, Laufey swings his ice blade at Odin, but Odin is quicker. The Allfather brings his spear down upon the ice. Laufey and the nearest Jotuns go falling backwards in a wave, the ice cracking beneath their feet. The other Frost Giants turn tail and run. Thor watches the fleeing Jotuns with delight.
Now! We'll finish them together!
Silence! Odin raises his spear. The hole in the sky opens, the Bifrost energy blasting forth from it. The Bifrost envelops the Asgardians, yanks them off the ground and up through the hole. The vortex closes behind them as all falls silent. Laufey stares up after them contemptuously.
Why did you bring us back?
Do you realize what you've done? What you've started?
I was protecting my home.
You cannot protect your friends. How can you hope to protect a kingdom? Odin turns to the others.
There won't be a kingdom to protect if you're afraid to act! Odin stares at him.
Whatever the cost, the world must know that the new King of Asgard will not be held in contempt.
That's pride and vanity that talks! Not leadership! Have you forgotten everything I've taught you? What of a warrior's patience, cunning?
While you wait and be patient, the Nine Realms laugh at us! The old ways are done. You'd stand giving speeches while Asgard falls!
You're a vain, greedy, cruel boy!
And you are an old man and a fool! The whole world seems to stop at Thor's words. Odin falls quiet. When he speaks again, there's something terrifying beneath the calmness of his words.
A fool, yes! I was a fool to think you were ready. Loki takes a step towards Odin imploringly.
Odin turns and gives Loki a look which stops him in his tracks.
Thor Odinson... You have disobeyed the express command of your King. Through your arrogance and stupidity, you have opened these peaceful Realms and innocent lives to the horrors of war. The Allfather plunges Gungnir into Observatory's control panel. The turret turns, the Bifrost energy building along with Odin's rage. It FIRES, as the Bifrost opens at the end of the platform, creating a portal behind Thor. Odin turns angrily to his son.
You are unworthy of this Realm... Odin RIPS a disc off Thor's chest.
...unworthy of your title... He rips away Thor's cloak.
...unworthy of the loved ones you've betrayed. I hereby take from you your powers. Odin extends his hand towards his son. Mjolnir goes flying from Thor's grasp into Odin's hand.
In the name of my father... A FINGER OF LIGHTNING comes off the hammer and hits Thor, disintegrating the right arm of his armor and part of the chest piece.
...and of his father before... Another strike disintegrates the remainder of Thor's armor, including the cape and torn-away disc on the floor.
I cast you out! Odin thrusts Mjolnir before him and -- with a CRACK OF THUNDER -- Thor is hurled backwards into the open Bifrost and disappears in the vortex.
I think that was legally your fault.
Get the first aid kit.
Thor opens his eyes to see Jane Foster staring at him, concerned. She looks vulnerable and beautiful.
Wow. Does he need CPR? Because I know CPR.
Uh, thanks. Are you okay? Thor searches the ground.
Hammer...
Yeah, we can tell you're hammered. That's pretty obvious. Jane notices something on the ground around them. She shines her flashlight down at the sand.
Erik... look at this. He joins her at her side and sees it. A faint, discernible pattern is etched into the sand. They exchange a look. Amazed and excited, Jane hurriedly takes out a camera and snaps some photos of the runes. A breeze begins to blow them away.
We've got to move fast before anything changes.
We need soil samples, light readings, everything. She pulls out a light meter, holds it up, takes some readings, jots them down in her notebook. Selvig looks at Thor, who stares up at the sky.
Jane, we need get him to a hospital. Jane kneels and quickly scoops up a soil sample in the cannister.
Not right now. It'll take too long. County's an hour away. We'll drop him off after we're done here. Selvig looks uncertain.
Father! Heimdall! I know you can hear me! Open the bridge!
 Okay, you and Darcy take him to the hospital, I'll stay here.
You expect me to leave you alone in the middle of the desert? Thor turns to the others, frustrated.
You! What world is this? The group is intimidated by his fervor.
It's all right, my friend. We're going to get you some help. Selvig touches Thor's shoulder. Thor shoves him off, grows agitated, belligerent.
Where am I?! Answer me! Darcy reaches into her fanny pack, pulls something out of it. Jane looks on, concerned.
Erik, just back away...
 You're in the desert outside the town of Puente Antiguo.
What Realm?! Alfheim? Nornheim?
Uh... New Mexico? Darcy raises a TASER at him. Thor looks at the weapon, unsure what to make of it.
You dare threaten Thor with so puny
Darcy fires, the electrified wires shooting out of the taser, ZAPPING him in the chest. Thor convulses, falls to the ground unconscious. Jane and Selvig stare at her, shocked.
What? He was freaking me out.
Name?
He said it was "Thor." The Nurse painstakingly types it into the computer, one key at a time. Jane watches as Thor is wheeled out of the room.
I've never met him before.
Until she hit him with the car.
Grazed him, actually.
I told you, I don't know him. I just want to make sure he's okay.
I'm going to need a name and contact number.
Jane Foster.
Oh, for God's sake... He reaches over Jane's shoulder and hands the Nurse his business card.
Here. Let's go. Selvig, Darcy, and Jane head out.
Hi. Just taking a little blood. Thor SLAPS the syringe away angrily, starts to sit up.
How dare you attack the son of Odin!
I need some help! Two ORDERLIES race over, try to hold Thor down.
We're trying to help you!
Then bring me a healing stone, you savages! He hurls one of them off, smashing against a wall. Now a couple SECURITY GUARDS and MALE NURSES join the fracas, all struggling to hold Thor down. Medical equipment goes flying, furniture overturned.
What the hell is this guy on? Finally, they force him back down onto the gurney. Thor looks shocked and amazed that he's actually being overpowered by this small group. The NURSE injects him with a sedative.
You're no match for the Mighty-- Thor struggles a beat, then passes out.
Huh.
Huh.
Darcy, when you're done, take the soil samples to Professor Meyers in geology. Remind him, he owes me.
We might want to perform a spectral analysis.
"We?"
I flew all the way out here -- might as well make myself useful. This is the offer Jane's been waiting for. She gets up, inserts the piece of equipment she's been working on into a rack-mounted server.
You know what would be really useful? Do you still have that friend at LIGO?
She was more than a friend.
Could you call in a favor?
You don't think this was just a magnetic storm?
If I'm right, their observatory must have picked up gravitational waves during last night's event.
Meaning? Jane heads over to a computer monitor. Selvig follows.
Meaning these anomalies might signify something bigger.
How "big" are we talking about? Jane indicates the footage on the monitor. As the last of the Bifrost cloud disappears into the night sky, there appears to be a blister in space, bulging out in convex and covered with stars.
I think the lensing around the edges is characteristic of an Einstein-Rosen Bridge.
A what?
I thought you were a science major.
Political Science. Selvig shoots Jane a confused look. Jane shrugs.
She was the only applicant.
Erik, look...
What do you see here?
Stars.
Yes. But not our stars. She spreads out a STAR CHART, barely able to contain her excitement.
This is the star alignment for our quadrant, this time of year. So unless Ursa Minor decided to take the day off... those are someone else's constellations. Selvig's intrigued, in spite of himself. Darcy pulls another frame-grab of the Bifrost footage from the printer and hangs it on the wall, when something in the image catches her eye.
Hey, check it out. Jane and Selvig examine the photo, amazed.
Is that...?
I think I left something at the hospital. As Jane walks away, we REVEAL the photo. Inside the Bifrost funnel cloud is a FIGURE -- the vague, but unmistakable shape of a MAN.
How could you have done this?
Do you understand what he set in motion? He's taken us to the brink of war!
But banishment? You would lose him forever? He's your son!
What would you have done?
I would not have exiled him to a world of mortals, stripped of his powers, to suffer alone. I would not have had the heart for such cruelty!
That is why I'm King.
You can bring him back.
No. His fate is in his own hands now.
It's not possible. He tries again, mustering all his strength. One of his hands slips free from its restraint.
I'm sorry, only relatives can visit patients.
I thought you said you didn't know him.
I meant I barely know him anymore. The man he's become. He's changed. I mean, what woman really knows her husband, anyway?
None of us, dear. He's in Room
Typical. I just lost my most important piece of evidence.
So now what?
We find him.
Did you see what he did in there? I don't know if finding him is the best idea.
I want to know what that thing was, and he may have the answers. We don't have a choice.
Oo-kay. She pulls out her taser and a can of mace.
So we're just going to spend the rest of the day looking for him?
However long it takes. Jane puts the car in reverse and backs up, when --
She collides with Thor again, dressed in stolen hospital scrubs. Jane and Selvig exchange a look.
I'm so sorry. I swear I'm not doing that on purpose.
Blue sky... one sun... This is Earth, isn't it?
I think you may have hit him with the car one time too many.
We should never have let him go.
There was no stopping him.
At least he's only banished, not dead. Which is what we'd all be if that guard hadn't told Odin where we'd gone.
How did the guard even know? Loki stares at his arm.
I told him.
What?
I told him to go to Odin after we'd left. Though he should be flogged for taking so long.
You told the guard?
I saved our lives! And Thor's. I had no idea Father would banish him for what he did.
Loki, you're the only one who can help Thor now. You must go to the Allfather and convince him to change his mind!
And if I do, then what? I love Thor more dearly than any of you, but you know what he is. He's arrogant. He's reckless. He's dangerous. You saw how he was today. Is that what Asgard needs from its King? The others exchange glances, torn. Loki has a point. He leaves the room. Hogun stares after him.
He may speak about the good of Asgard, but he's always been jealous of Thor.
True, but we should be grateful to him. He did save our lives.
Laufey said there were traitors in the House of Odin. The others turn to the usually quiet Hogun.
Why is it every time you choose to speak, it has to be something dark and ominous?
A master of magic could easily bring three Jotuns into Asgard. The others look to Hogun, understanding the implication.
No! Surely not!
Loki's always been one for mischief, but you're talking about something else entirely.
Who else could elude Heimdall's gaze with tricks of light and shadow?
The ceremony was interrupted just before Thor was named King.
We should go to the Allfather.
And tell him what? "Oh, by the way, we think your son just betrayed the throne. And do us a favor. Bring back Thor. There's a good fellow!"
It's our duty. If any of our suspicions are right, then all of Asgard is in danger.
Stop! Loki turns, sees Odin hurrying into the room, the Destroyer goes motionless, the latticework rejoining before it. Odin eyes Loki with dismay.
Am I cursed?
No. Put the Casket down. Loki sets the Casket back upon its pedestal, his body quickly returning to its normal form and color. He stares at his father.
What am I?
You're my son.
What more than that? Odin doesn't answer. He looks suddenly weary, burdened. Loki sizes him up, realizes the truth.
The Casket wasn't the only thing you took from Jotunheim that day, was it? Odin looks him in the eye. He can deny it no longer.
No.
Laufey's son... He desperately struggles to make sense of it all.
Why? You were knee-deep in Jotun blood. Why would you take me?
You were an innocent child.
You took me for a purpose, what was it? Odin doesn't answer.
Tell me!
I thought we could unite our kingdoms one day, bring about an alliance, bring about a permanent peace... through you. But those plans no longer matter.
So I am no more than another stolen relic, locked up here until you might have use of me.
Why do you twist my words?
You could have told me what I was from the beginning. Why didn't you?
You are my son. My blood. I wanted only to protect you from the truth.
Because I am the monster parents tell their children about at night?
Don't...
It all makes sense now. Why you favored Thor all these years.
Listen...
Because no matter how much you claim to "love" me, you could never have a Frost Giant sitting on the Throne of Asgard! Odin's body begins to shake, he lifts his hand. It starts to move out of synch temporarily, leaving a trail, the effect of the Odinsleep approaching. Loki doesn't notice as Odin tries to fight it off.
Listen to me! Loki strides away towards the exit.
Loki! Odin starts towards him, when the enormous mental, emotional, and physical strain of recent events finally takes its toll. The effect of the Odinsleep consumes him. His entire body now moves out of sync with the rest of the world, leaving trails behind him as he staggers backwards. Odin falls back against a wall, his face contorting in a scream. He collapses to the stone floor. Loki, shocked, hurries to him. He takes Odin in his arms, calls out.
Guards!
They hear an approaching RUMBLE, then clear a path as a large PICK-UP TRUCK backs its way down the crater's edge. An EAGER TOWNIE hops out the passenger side and pulls a thick chain from the back of the truck. He fastens one end around the object, then securely affixes the chain to the bumper and the rear of the undercarriage.
This'll do it. He yells to the driver.
Okay, let 'er rip! The townsfolk watch as the pick-up's engine ROARS, then STRAINS, its wheels spinning futilely, until finally the rear of the truck, along with the back wheels and axles, break off and go flying. People dive out of the way. The PICK-UP DRIVER sticks his head out. He is STAN "THE MAN" LEE. He looks back, shocked. The townsfolk laugh, the party continuing. They don't notice as --
He is SHIELD AGENT COULSON. He stares down at the object which glows with an otherworldly blue energy -- MJOLNIR. He pulls out a phone.
You know, for a crazy homeless guy, he's pretty cut. Jane turns away. Thor emerges from the back room, holding a t-shirt.
Hey, sorry I tased you! Thor heads over to Jane's work area, starts fiddling with the equipment there with interest. Jane hurries over to put a stop to it.
Excuse me... excuse me! She leads him away from the work station. Thor holds up the t-shirt. On the front, it bear a sticker which reads: "HELLO, MY NAME IS DR. DONALD BLAKE". Thor looks at it, puzzled. Jane rips the sticker off.
My ex. Thor stares at her a beat.
They're the only clothes I had that'll fit you. Sorry.
They will suffice. Thor turns his attention to the pictures of the Bifrost on the wall.
You're welcome. Now tell me... Thor studies the frame-grabs with interest. Jane points to his form in the Bifrost photo.
What were you doing, in that? He glances at it, dismissive.
What does anyone do in the Bifrost? Everyone stares at him. Selvig seems to recognize the word. Jane opens her notebook, quickly writes the word down. Thor moves close to her, eyes the notations and drawings within the book, curious.
 The Bifrost... Jane starts to get uncomfortable with Thor standing so close to her, looking over her notations. She quickly closes the book.
What exactly is the Bifrost?
Somebody get the mortal a Pop-Tart.
I asked him to be honest with you from the beginning. There should be no secrets in a family.
So why did he lie?
He kept the truth from you so that you would never feel different. You are in every way our son, Loki, and we your family. You must know that. Loki takes this in, stares at Odin.
How long will it last?
I don't know. This time is different. We were unprepared.
I never get used to seeing him like this. The most powerful being in the Nine Realms lying helpless until his body is restored.
But he's put it off for so long now, I fear... Loki takes her hand. She's grateful, wipes tears from her eyes.
You're a good son. Loki sits there, uncertain how to react, uncertain how he really feels.
We mustn't lose hope that your father will return to us. And your brother. Loki looks to Frigga, concerned.
What hope is there for Thor?
There's always a purpose to everything your father does. Thor may yet find a way home. Loki looks troubled by the revelation. He rises, heads for the exit, when they hear the clatter of ARMORED FOOTSTEPS hurriedly approaching.
Thor is banished. The line of succession falls to you. Until he awakens, Asgard is yours.
Make your father proud. Loki reaches out tentatively, then takes it. He likes the feel of it in his hand.
Now tell us exactly what happened to you last night. Thor looks her in the eyes, staring, intrigued. Jane gets flustered, looks away.
Maybe start with how you got inside that cloud.
And how you could eat an entire box of Pop-Tarts and still be this hungry. Jane shoots her a withering look. Thor downs a cup of coffee.
 This drink. I like it.
 Yeah, it's great, isn't it? Isabela makes the best coffee in town. Thor hurls the empty mug at the ground, SHATTERING it.
Sorry, Izzy. Little accident.
 What was that? He doesn't understand. The other patrons stare at him.
It was delicious. I want another.
Then you should just say so!
I just did.
I mean ask for it. Nicely.
I meant no disrespect.
All right, then no more smashing, deal?
You have my word.
Good.
Morning, Pete. Jake.
The usual, please, Izzy. Isabela pours them a couple cups of coffee.
What crater? Jane and Selvig overhear this, exchange a look, turn to the Townies with interest.
They're saying some kind of satellite crashed in the desert.
 Excuse me, did you say there was a satellite crash?
Oh my God, this is going on Facebook. Darcy whips out her cellphone.
 What did the satellite look like?
Where?!
I wouldn't bother! Looked like the whole Army was coming in when we left!
Where are you going?
Twelve miles east of here. He starts to stride determinedly down the street. Jane walks with him.
Why?
To get what belongs to me.
So now you own a satellite?
It's not what they say it is.
Whatever it is, the government seems to think it's theirs. You intend to just walk in there and take it?
Yes. He stops walking.
If you take me there now, I'll tell you everything you wish to know.
Everything?
All the answers you seek will be yours, once I reclaim Mjolnir. Darcy looks to the others.
"Myeu-muh?" What's "Myeu-muh?" Jane studies Thor. He looks sincere. She's nearly swayed,
Jane. He pulls her aside. Thor can tell that Selvig doesn't much care for him.
You know what we saw last night. This can't be a coincidence. I want to know what's in that crater.
I'm not talking about the crater. I'm talking about him.
He's promised us answers.
He's delusional! Listen to what he's saying! "Thor." "Bifrost." "Mjolnir." These are the stories I grew up with as a child!
I'd just be driving him out there, that's all.
It's dangerous. He's dangerous.
I'm sorry. I can't take you.
I understand. Then this is where we say goodbye. He takes her hand and kisses it.
That's... thank you. Thor bows slightly to each of them.
Jane Foster... Erik Selvig... Darcy. Farewell. He heads off down the street. Selvig looks relieved.
Now... let's get back to the lab. We have work to do. Selvig and Darcy turn and start to go. Jane looks after Thor as he walks away down the street.
Allfather, we must speak with you
But as they raise their heads, they stop short to see --
Sitting sprawled upon his father's throne. He wears his horned ceremonial headdress and holds GUNGNIR in his hand. Sif and the others look up, shocked at the sight before them.
What is this?
My friends... you haven't heard? I am now Ruler of Asgard.
Where is Odin?
Father's fallen into the Odinsleep. My mother fears he may never awaken again.
We would speak with her. Sif and the Warriors Three exchange a look. Loki notices.
She has refused to leave my father's bedside. You can bring your "urgent" matter to me, your King. Sif covers quickly.
We would ask you to end Thor's banishment.
My first command can not be to undo the Allfather's last. We're on the brink of war with Jotunheim. Our people must have a sense of continuity in order to feel safe in these difficult times. Sif and the Warriors Three trade looks, not liking any of this.
All of us must stand together, for the good of Asgard.
Of course. Sif and the Warriors Three bow their heads and exit. Loki stares after them.
Hey! That's my stuff!
What the hell is going on here?! The Agents ignore her as Agent Coulson approaches.
Ms. Foster, I'm Agent Coulson, with
Selvig, recognizing the name of the organization, grows wary.
I don't care who you work for, you can't do this!
Jane. This is more serious than you realize. Let it go.
Let it go?! This is my life!
We're here investigating a security threat. We need to appropriate your equipment and all your atmospheric data.
By "appropriate" you mean "steal?" Instead of answering, Coulson gives her a check.
This should more than compensate you for your trouble. She throws the check to the ground without looking at it.
I can't just pick up replacements from RadioShack! I made most of that equipment myself!
Then I'm sure you can do it again.
And I'm sure I can sue you for violating my constitutional rights!
We're the good guys, Ms. Foster. He tries to walk away, but Jane blocks his path. She is fully herself, fueled by outrage.
So are we! We're on the verge of
extraordinary. Jane holds up her notebook.
Everything I know about this phenomenon is in this lab and in this book, and no one has the right to take it from me. Coulson gestures to a nearby AGENT, who promptly plucks the notebook out of Jane's hands and adds it to the pile he's carrying. Jane is stunned.
Thank you for your cooperation. He gets into a car. The cars and trucks pull away.
Years of research, gone.
They even took my iPod.
And your back-ups?
Look around! They took our back- ups. They took the back-ups of our back-ups.
I just downloaded, like, thirty songs on there.
No one knows much about them. But I knew a scientist -- a pioneer in gamma radiation. SHIELD showed up, and he was never heard from again.
I'm not going to let them do this. I'm getting everything back.
Please, let me contact one of my colleagues. Dr. Pym has had some dealings with these people. I'll e- mail him and see if he can help.
They took your laptop, too. Annoyed, Selvig thinks.
I'll just be a minute. He climbs out and heads inside. Jane looks down the street and sees something that intrigues her.
I need a horse.
Then give me one of those, large enough to ride. The Pet Store Clerk looks confused. Just then, Thor hears a CAR HORN. He turns to the open door. Across the street, Jane calls to him from the Pinzgauer.
You still want a lift?
Joshua, come sit down. It's story time. The Kid closes his book and joins the others. Selvig looks over, notices the title of the book the Kid was reading --
It's a picture of a RAINBOW BRIDGE coming down from Asgard to earth. ASGARDIANS walk upon it, among them ODIN, LOKI, and THOR, who wields Mjolnir. On the ground below them, a group of VIKINGS kneel reverently. He eyes the illustration, pondering.
I've never done anything like this before! Have you ever done anything like this before? Thor looks amused by her excitement.
Many times. You're brave to do it.
They just stole my entire life's work. I really don't have anything left to lose.
But you're clever. Far more clever than anyone else in this Realm.
"This Realm?" Why do you talk like that?
You think me strange? Jane laughs, catches herself.
Yeah. Just a little.
Good strange or bad strange?
I'm not quite sure yet. She looks at him, sees him staring at her. She's lost in his gaze, distracted, when the PINZGAUER LURCHES. She quickly turns her eyes forward, regains control of the car.
Sorry. She glances back at him. He's confident, determined.
Who are you? Really?
You'll see soon enough.
You promised me answers.
What you seek -- it's a bridge.
A bridge? Like an Einstein-Rosen Bridge?
More like a rainbow bridge.
God, I hope you're not crazy.
Clear, plastic access tubes with junction boxes lead to a translucent cube structure erected in the middle of the crater. Through the glass walls of the base's command trailer, we see Coulson directing TECHNICIANS, busy at work. Within the cube structure itself, a team of SHIELD SCIENTISTS work with high-tech machinery, analyzing the object at the center of it all -- Mjolnir.
That isn't a satellite crash. They would have hauled the wreckage away, not built a city around it. Thor shrugs out of his jacket and hands it to her.
You're going to need this.
Why?-- Thunder RUMBLES overhead. She stares at him intently and takes his jacket.
Stay here. Once I have Mjolnir, I will return what they stole from you.
Deal?
No! Look what's down there! You can't just walk in, grab our stuff, and walk out!
No. Jane looks relieved.
I'm going to fly out. Before she can react, he starts heading towards the crater. The first drops of rain begin to patter into the dust.
Wait... But Thor is already headed towards the crater.
Feed from the keyhole. Can barely penetrate the cloud cover. The Techie hikes a thumb at another monitor, SQUELCHING with static. It shows an SAR shot of the area, laid over a terrain map.
Tech's barely working as it is, with all the interference that thing's giving off. He gestures towards the hammer. He checks a computer.
Hey, we've got a commercial aircraft coming in right over us, Southwest Airlines Flight 5434.
Reroute it, like all the others.
Right. Can I get the passengers some free drinks for the trouble? Sitwell glares at him.
Hold a sec... we got something outside the fence, west side... He points at the screen. Through the haze, it shows a THERMAL IMAGE huddled beside the fence.
 DeLancey, Jackson -- check it out.
Jackson? The Agents reach for their weapons. Thor elbows the driver across the jaw, causing him to drop his weapon. Jackson slumps over the steering wheel, as DeLancey starts to raise a shotgun at Thor. Thor grabs the barrel, yanks it out of DeLancey's hands and thrusts the hilt back, smashing the Agent's jaw. Thor reaches into the jeep to grab a rain slicker.
Another SHIELD AGENT approaches the jeep, spots the unconscious DeLancey and Jackson. He quickly calls into his radio.
Agents down! We've got a perimeter breach!
 Get Coulson. Sitwell punches an alarm.
You've reached Dr. Erik Selvig. Please leave me a message. His voicemail BEEPS. She talks quietly, urgently.
Erik, okay, first of all, don't worry. I'm perfectly fine, really. More sounds of MAYHEM come from the base.
But if you don't hear from me again, you might want to come out to the crater site and look for me. I kind of did what you said I shouldn't do. Thanks. Bye. She hangs up.
Thor notices the AR-15 rifle lying on the ground beside the fallen Guard. He stares down at the weapon quizzically. As more GUARDS approach, Thor snatches up the weapon and takes cover in the shadows of the trailer. The Guards pass by. Thor peers around the corner, sees the well-guarded main entrance tube to the center of the site. A bright light suddenly illuminates his face. He looks to see an ATV moving across the site, shining its spotlight right on him. Thor sees that the ATV DRIVER has spotted him. The Driver raises his radio to report. Thor knows he has to act fact. He raises the rifle -- then flips it over in the air and catches it by the barrel. He rears the weapon back, then hurls it like a hammer. It flies through the air, smashing the ATV's spotlight. Glass and debris shower the driver, who takes his hands off the wheel to protect himself. The ATV roars out of control past the Guards near the tube entrance. The Guards notice and chase after it. Thor emerges from the shadows, watches the Guards abandoning the site entrance.
I want eyes up high. With a gun. Now!
82L.a INT. COMMAND TRAILER TUNNEL ENTRANCE 82L.a Coulson enters the tunnels through the command trailer. He calls on his radio.
Barton. Talk to me.
Hello, handsome.
You're big. Thor grins.
Fought bigger.
No...
Rain and blood run down Thor's face. He lunges forward, whipping his feet in front of him, then kicks out, nailing the Huge Agent in the chest. The Agent goes down hard as Thor's momentum carries him past. Thor stands, heads for the cube structure, when the Huge Guard grabs his ankle in a last effort. Thor looks back down at his foe, then drops backwards, pile driving his elbow into the fallen Agent's chest. The Huge Agent grimaces in pain, defeated. Thor races back towards the structure.
He stands there -- soaking, bleeding, caked with wet earth. His hammer rests just a few yards before him, energy surging around it. Coulson steps into the structure through an access tunnel, one story up.
Barton...
...hold your fire. Barton releases the trigger, pulls up.
Ground units, move in. Show's over. As the Agents surround him, Thor doesn't seem to notice or care. He just sits there on his knees, head bowed in the rain -- a man broken, lost. From overhead, we see the hammer in the cube containment room. We pull up as the Guards approach Thor, then continue to climb, until we see the whole camp -- and the extensive damage Thor's done to it during the melee.
She steels herself, then starts over the ridge to help him. Almost immediately, a SPOTLIGHT sweeps past her. She hears the sound of DOGS and SHIELD AGENTS approaching, sees the glow of flashlights moving from the base towards her. With no other choice, she makes a quick retreat.
I can't just leave him there.
Why not?
You didn't see what happened. Darcy points at an illustration of Thor's hammer in the book.
Hey! Myeu-muh! Jane looks at the illustration in the book, turns to Selvig knowingly.
In the children's section. I wanted to show you how ridiculous his story was. Jane is unconvinced by this. She knows he wants to believe.
Aren't you the one who's always told me to chase down all leads, all possibilities?
I was talking about science, not magic!
Magic's just science we don't understand yet. Arthur C. Clarke.
Who wrote science fiction.
The precursor of science fact.
In some cases.
If that's really an Einstein-Rosen Bridge out there, then there's something on the other side.
Advanced beings could have come through it before.
Jane...
A primitive culture like the Vikings might have worshipped them as deities. They give her a look, surprised by her unexpectedly insightful input. Darcy shrugs. Jane points at her, grateful for the support.
Yes! Exactly! Thank you! Darcy beams.
Jane, if you do this, you'll find yourself in a situation that I won't be able to get you out of this time.
I'll help you. Jane looks grateful. Selvig looks at her, sees there's no stopping her. He sighs.
It's not easy to do what you did. You made us all look like a bunch of mall cops. That's hurtful.
Pakistan? Chechnya? Afghanistan? Then again, you strike me more as the soldier of fortune type. What was it, South Africa? Still no answer. Coulson leans in close to him.
Certain groups pay well for a good mercenary. Especially HYDRA. Coulson waits for a response, but gets none.
Who are you?
Just a man.
One way or another, we find out what we want to know. We're good at that. Coulson leaves the room. Thor lowers his head.
I thought he'd never leave. Thor looks up, shocked to find Loki standing there, dressed in 21st century attire.
Loki? What are you doing here?
I had to see you.
What's happened? Tell me! Is it Jotunheim? Let me explain to
Father is dead. Thor stares at him, stunned.
What?
Your banishment, the threat of a new war, it was too much for him to bear. The implications of Loki's words dawn on Thor -- he's responsible for his father's fate. Loki draws close to him, looks in his eyes, consolingly.
You mustn't blame yourself. I know that you loved him. I tried to tell him so, but he wouldn't listen.
The burden of the throne has fallen to me now.
Can I come home?
The truce with Jotunheim is conditional upon your exile.
But couldn't we find a way to--
Mother has forbidden your return. Thor nods, lowers his head, beaten.
This is goodbye, brother. I'm so sorry.
No, I'm sorry. Loki... thank you for coming here.
Nothing could have stopped me. Coulson enters the room, but seems to take no notice of Loki.
Fare well, brother.
Good-bye.
Good-bye? I just got back. Thor looks up to see that Loki is gone.
Now. Where did we leave off?
He reaches down, tries to lift it -- but can't. He lets it go, eyes it with contempt, then steps away. He gestures with his arms. An odd GREEN AND GOLD LIGHT rises from the ground, enveloping him, then he disappears.
"Donald Blake?"
Doctor Donald Blake. He's part of our team.
You have dangerous coworkers, Dr. Selvig.
Troubled, not dangerous. He was distraught when he found out that you'd taken all of our research. It was years of his life, gone! He got depressed, started drinking, and... well, you know the rest.
Uh-huh. You mind if we take a moment to verify his identity?
Certainly. The Techie at a computer nearby runs the name.
You can understand how a man could go off like that. I mean, a big, faceless organization like yours, coming in with their jack-booted thugs and stealing private property...
That doesn't explain how he managed to tear through our security. Selvig shrugs.
Steroids. He's a bit of a fitness nut.
It says here he's an M.D.
He is. That is, he was. He switched careers and became a physicist. He's quite brilliant, really.
Release Dr. Blake to Dr. Selvig here. The Techie looks to him, surprised.
Thank you.
Donny, Donny, Donny! There you are! Thor looks up, unsure what the hell is going on. Selvig pulls Thor to his feet, gives him a warm hug.
It's going to be all right, my friend. Come on, I'm taking you home.
He looks to Selvig and Thor heading away from the Security Room, then follows them outside.
Just keep him away from the bars.
I will!
To get a drink. Selvig and Thor climb into the SUV. As they drive off, Coulson turns to the other two agents -- GARRETT and CALE.
Follow them.
Tell me why I shouldn't kill you.
I've come alone and unarmed.
To what end?
To make you another proposition.
You're welcome.
My men are dead, and I have no Casket. You are a deceiver. Laufey lashes out, grabs Loki around the throat, but Loki calmly stands his ground.
You have no idea what I am. The blueness spreads across his face, as Laufey and the guards stare in shock. Loki grins.
Hello, Father. Laufey releases him. Loki's body turns back to normal. Intrigued, Laufey sizes up his son.
Ah, the bastard son. I thought Odin had killed you. That's what I would have done. He's as weak as you are.
No longer weak. I now rule Asgard, until Odin awakens. Perhaps you should not have so carelessly abandoned me. This gives Laufey pause.
Or perhaps it was the wisest choice I've ever made. I will hear you.
I will conceal you and a handful of your soldiers, lead you into his chambers, and let you slay him where he lies. I'll keep the throne, and you will have the Casket. Laufey studies Loki's face.
Why would you do this?
When all is done, we will have a permanent peace between our two worlds. Then I, the bastard son, will have accomplished what Odin and Thor never could.
This is a great day for Jotunheim. Asgard is finally ours.
No. Asgard is mine. The rest of the Nine Realms will be yours, if you do as you're told. Laufey considers the proposition.
I accept. Loki turns to leave. As he goes, the slightest trace of a smile crosses his face.
What troubles you, Gatekeeper?
I turned my gaze upon you in Jotunheim, but could neither see nor hear you. You were shrouded from me, like the Frost Giants who entered this Realm.
Perhaps your senses have weakened after your many years of service.
Or perhaps someone has found a way to hide that which he does not wish me to see. Loki sizes him up, smiles.
You have great power, Heimdall. Tell me, did Odin ever fear you?
No.
And why is that?
Because he is my King, and I am sworn to obey him.
Exactly. Just as you're sworn to obey me now. Yes? A beat.
Yes.
Good. Then you will open the Bifrost to no one until I have undone what my brother has started. Loki heads out of the Observatory. Heimdall stares after him.
Seems Darcy's a terrible intern, but a talented hacker.
Thank you for what you've done.
Don't thank me. I only did it for Jane.
Are you in love with her?
Of course not! Jane's like a daughter to me. Her father and I taught at University together. A good man, but he never listened. This registers with Thor.
Neither did I. Selvig eyes him with interest.
I don't know if you're really delusional, and I really don't care at this point. I just care about her. I've seen the way she looks at you.
I swear to you, I mean her no harm.
Good. If that's the case, then I'll buy you one more drink, and you'll leave town tonight. A long pause, then Thor nods. He takes a drink.
I had it all backwards. I had it all wrong. Selvig watches him keenly. This is a different Thor than he's seen before.
It's not a bad thing, finding out that you don't have all the answers. That's when you start asking the right questions. Thor takes this in.
For the first time in my life, I have no idea what I'm supposed to do.
Anyone who's ever going to find their way in this world has to start by admitting they don't know where the hell they are. Thor nods.
Hey, I know you, man... An intimidating DRUNK TOWNIE nearby sizes up Thor. He is one of the Townies from Isabela's Diner who saw Thor earlier. He approaches, belligerent and looking for a fight.
You were in the diner with that hot girl. Thor doesn't like where this is going.
I wouldn't mind her doing a little research on me. He laughs. Thor is annoyed.
I have no quarrel with you. But she's a lady. You should be more respectful.
And you should shut the hell up, princess. Selvig looks to Thor, concerned that he's going to lose it. But, to his surprise, Thor remains unaffected by the Townie's baiting.
I will not fight him.
Then it'll be easy to kick your ass. Selvig stands, steps between the two men.
Gentlemen, please. Let's keep our heads. Just then, Selvig HEAD-BUTTS the Townie, knocking him out. Thor's impressed. Selvig downs his drink, then hurls his glass aside, SHATTERING it on the ground.
Standing there with the unconscious Selvig slung over his shoulder.
Erik!
He's fine. Not injured at all.
Sorry, my friend.
What happened?
We drank. We fought. He made his ancestors proud.
Put him on the bed. Thor moves through the small trailer carrying Selvig, like a bear lugging another bear, smashing into things along the way, until he finally sets Selvig down on Jane's bed. Selvig awakens groggily and looks up at him through bleary eyes.
I still don't believe you're the God of Thunder.
These are your chambers? Jane suddenly becomes self-conscious. She starts cleaning up the mess around her.
Well, it's more of a temporary living space, really. I don't usually have visitors in here. Actually, never... Thor picks up a sock off the floor. She snatches it from him, puts it away.
Can we go outside?
I come up here sometimes when I can't sleep. Or when I'm trying to reconcile particle data. Or when Darcy's driving me crazy.
I'm glad you're safe.
You've been very kind. I've been far less grateful than you deserve.
I also hit you with my car a couple times, so it kind of evens out. He grins, then reaches into his pocket and pulls out her
I don't believe it... She takes it from him, surprised and grateful.
It was all I could get back. Not as much as I promised. I'm sorry.
No, this is good. Thank you. This means I don't have to start from scratch... She sits down and opens the notebook eagerly, then stops, a harsh realization clouding her face. Thor notices.
What's wrong?
SHIELD, whatever they are. They're never going to let this research see the light of day.
You must do this. You must finish what you've started.
Why?
Because you're right. It's taken so many generations for your people to get to this point. You're nearly there. You just need someone to show you how close you really are.
Look -- your ancestors called it magic. You call it science. I come from a place where they're one and the same thing. We recognize that Thor is drawing the branches of Yggdrasil as she looks on, amazed and intrigued.
What is it?
This is how my father explained it to me...
Our dearest friend banished, Loki on the throne, Asgard on the brink of war, yet you manage to consume four wild boar, six pheasant, a side of beef, and two casks of ale. Shame on you! Don't you care?! Fandral moves to throw the platter in the fire, but Volstagg pulls his weapon, stopping him.
Do not mistake my appetite for apathy.
Stop it, both of you! We all know what we have to do, we're just too damned afraid to do it!
It's treason, Hogun.
To hell with treason, it's suicide.
Yes, yes, we know!
Thor would do the same for us. An EINHERJAR GUARD enters. They tense.
Heimdall demands your presence. Volstagg quickly drains his flagon of ale.
We're doomed.
I need some coffee. The three head inside Smith Motors.
Thanks.
You're very welcome. Jane joins them at the card table with a couple more plates. She and Thor sit with the others and start to eat their breakfast, looking like a little family.
They want an update.
Tell them he's eating eggs.
Scrambled or fried? Cale glares at him.
Sure.
Thank you. Excuse me a moment. Thor leaves.
To replace the one I broke. Please forgive my behavior.
Okay. Thank you.
If I may, I'd like to come back for more of your "coffee."
Any time. He nods and walks away. She stares after him, smiling, and shrugs.
She could do worse.
Good Heimdall, less us explain--
You would defy the commands of Loki our King, break every oath you have taken as warriors, and commit treason to bring Thor back? The four exchange nervous glances.
Yes, but--
Good. The group looks puzzled. What did he just say?
So you'll help us?
I am bound by honor to our King. I cannot open the Bifrost to you. With that, Heimdall leaves them alone in the Observatory. The others exchange puzzled looks.
Complicated fellow, isn't he?
Now what do we do? Sif glances at the control panel, notices something.
Look! The others turn to see HEIMDALL'S SWORD stuck into the control panel. They exchange a grin. They have an ally. Sif hits the controls, and the Bifrost apparatus fires up.
What the hell was that?
I don't know, sir. We got massive energy readings out of nowhere, then they just disappeared. Fifteen miles due northwest.
Let's go take a look.
He must have landed nearby. It's time to put our tracking skills to work. Spread out. Check the sand for indentations of his boot prints.
The winds would have blown them away by now. We should look for signs of a campfire.
Or we could just start there. She points behind them to the town of Puente Antiguo in the distance -- the only visible sign of civilization -- and to Hogun, who has already started walking towards it. Volstagg and Fandral trade looks, their egos bruised.
It's worth a look, I suppose. The party tromps towards the town.
There you go, lad! The boy just stares, standing frozen. The Asgardians head off.
Is it just me, or does Earth look a little different to you?
It has been a thousand years...
Things change so fast here. You leave for a millennium, and it's like the whole neighborhood's gone. Volstagg sniffs, smells something.
Perhaps we should split up.
Is there a Renaissance Faire in town?
Call it in. But before they can, Volstagg rises up behind them, smashes their heads together. They're out.
Never cared for spies. He starts to go, then sees their bag of fast food on the ground. Intrigued, he pulls out a cheeseburger and takes a bite. He likes what he tastes.
Exquisite.
My liege, the Warriors Three and the Lady Sif have gone missing. Loki reacts. He knows who's responsible.
Tell me, Loki, how did you get the Jotuns into Asgard?
You think the Bifrost is the only way in and out of the Realm? There are secret paths between worlds to which even you with all your gifts are blind. But I have need of them no longer, now that I am King.
Then I need no longer obey you. Heimdall raises his massive sword, strides towards Loki. Loki reaches out and, with both hands, takes hold of something invisible, hovering in mid-air before him. As it quickly fades into view, we realize what it is --
Ensure my brother does not return.
The door opens.
Found you! Thor, Jane, Selvig, and Darcy turn to see --
My friends! Thor happily races over and greets his comrades. Jane, Selvig, and Darcy watch the Asgardians from across the room. Jane looks concerned. Selvig and Darcy eye them with wonder.
I don't believe it...
Who are they?
Lady Sif and the Warriors Three. Surely you've heard tales of Hogun the Grim, Fandral the Dashing, and I, Volstagg the Svelte? Selvig looks pointedly at Volstagg's massive gut.
Well, perhaps I've put on a little more muscle since I was here last.
That would have been a thousand years ago? Northern Europe?
Exactly! Those lovely herring people. They worshipped us! Thor grins, lays a hand on Volstagg's shoulder.
My friends, I've never been happier to see anyone. But you should not have come.
We're here to take you home. Jane reacts to the news of Thor leaving.
You know I can't. My father is dead because of me. I must remain in exile. The other Asgardians exchange puzzled looks.
Thor... your father still lives. Thor reacts to the revelation.
Get somebody from Linguistics out here. Just then, they hear a RUMBLING overhead, as the Bifrost storm ROARS in the sky above. Coulson and the SHIELD Agents scramble for cover, their vehicle windshields SHATTERING, as the Bifrost storm grows in strength. Finally, the hole in the sky overhead opens, and the funnel cloud EXPLODES out of it, touching down onto the desert floor. Coulson and the Agents shelter their eyes from the maelstrom.
Was somebody else coming? Just then, the Bifrost funnel EXPLODES down to the ground.
I don't think so. But the guy doesn't tell me anything.
Hello! You're using unregistered weapons technology. Please identify yourself. We hear the HUM of the Destroyer's fiery energy power up inside.
Incoming! As the SHIELD Agents scramble for cover, a blast of energy from the Destroyer EXPLODES a vehicle. SHIELD agents return fire.
Leave this town now. Get yourself and your friends to safety.
What about you?
I must stay and fight. The Asgardians look to Thor.
I'm still a warrior, and I will fight by your side.
You're but a mortal now. You'll get yourself killed!
Or one of us, trying to protect you.
The best thing you can do is get the mortals to safety and leave the battle to us. Thor looks at the townsfolk around them, all oblivious to the oncoming threat.
Help me clear the streets. I'll let none of these people die this day. Thor, Jane, Selvig, and Darcy start to herd the crowd of Townsfolk off the streets, as the Warriors Three and Sif head across town, towards the Destroyer.
Father. Welcome to Asgard.
Strides down the street, a red, fiery energy glowing from within it. It unleashes BLASTS as it goes, blowing up cars, setting storefronts aflame.
Keep him distracted. She hurries off. The Warriors Three continue towards the behemoth.
What do you think? "The Svartalfheim Twist?" "Kiss of the Hag?" "Face Full of Boot?" Volstagg grins eagerly.
"The Flying Mountain." Hogun and Fandral groan.
Not "The Flying Mountain!" It threw out my back for a year last time!
Trust me, it'll work.
For Asgaaaaard!!!
The Destroyer savagely HURLS him at Hogun and Fandral, smashing into them, when --
Leaps off a nearby rooftop with her two-headed spear and plunges it deep into the back of the creature. The creature stands there motionless, the fire dimming in its faceplate, Sif standing atop its back. The Asgardians have a brief moment of hope. But the creature stirs with life, its fire igniting once again. Sif looks on with growing trepidation. Slowly, unnaturally, the Destroyer spins its torso around 180 degrees to face its attackers. The Destroyer unleashes a blast at Sif. She barely dives off of the behemoth in time, dodging the blast. The Destroyer rises again to its full height, pulling free from Sif's staff, the weapon slipping through the slats of its armor. Sif and the Warriors Three try to regroup, when the Destroyer unleashes another blast, sending Sif and her comrades flying in all directions. Hogun's POUCH OF HEALING STONES breaks free, landing in the middle of the street.
Erik! She and Thor hurry to his side. He's losing blood, going into shock.
Come on... give me one! Amidst the useless powder, he finally finds one stone still intact. Thor tosses the pouch aside, holds the stone over the end of the iron rod.
What are you doing? What is that? As the stone begins to glow, Thor crushes it. Jane looks on, amazed, as the glowing powder falls upon the piece of iron, dissolving it, heading downwards, until it reaches Selvig's wound. The powder heals his wound completely. Thor looks down the street, sees his wounded friends still lying there, as Selvig sits up in utter astonishment. He reaches through the hole in his shirt to touch his healed flesh.
 I'm really starting to like him. Jane turns to Thor to find he's gone.
Go, while you can!
But the others...
You can't help them now. Your job is to survive. She struggles to sit up.
No! I will die a warrior's death. Stories will be told of this day-- He gently takes her shield from her.
Live and tell those stories yourself. At last, she nods. Thor spots Volstagg lying unconscious, with Hogun and Fandral lying nearby. Thor makes his way towards them. Volstagg is barely breathing. Thor tries to pull him to safety, but it's no use. He won't budge. He rouses Hogun and Fandral.
No. We can still fight!
But not win. Move Volstagg, or he'll die! Thor looks at them, grins.
Don't worry, my friends. I have a plan. The two Warriors reluctantly grab their fallen friend and drag him away from the battlefield. After they go, Thor turns to back to the Destroyer, then tosses Sif's shield aside. He strides down the street towards the behemoth, completely defenseless.
Brother... for whatever I have done to wrong you, whatever I have done to lead you to do this, I am sorry. But these people have done nothing to you. They are innocents. He continues towards the Destroyer.
Take my life, and know I will never return to Asgard.
Jane, no! He pulls her into Smith Motors. A RAVEN flies overhead, watching the scene --
A blinding BOLT OF LIGHTNING strikes down from above, colliding with the Destroyer's blast. The explosion is massive. The Destroyer is hurled backwards, a cloud of dust enveloping the street. As the smoke clears we see --
Oh. My. God.
Lightning strikes the Destroyer. It convulses. Thor swings Mjolnir around, takes off straight up into the air, as the Destroyer gets back on its feet and looks up at the Thunder God. Storm clouds gather around Thor as he summons gale force winds. Debris from the battle begins to rise up into the sky. The Destroyer stays there, kept grounded by its massive weight.
Thor jams his hammer deep into the Destroyer's faceplate. The fiery energy within the creature builds up and EXPLODES within him, firing out of all his openings. Thor smashes the Destroyer to the ground in a tremendous heap, the fiery energy within it extinguished forever. Thor pulls Mjolnir from its faceplate, walks away from its lifeless carcass. As he does, the other objects and debris pulled into the air by the gale winds drop down from the skies, around the Destroyer, burying it. Jane and Thor's comrades, now roused, stand to join him. A battered Coulson approaches with several SHIELD AGENTS.
Donald... I don't think you've been completely honest with me.
So, how can you speak our language?
Your language? Ha! Silly girl, you're speaking ours. Thor calls up to the sky.
Heimdall! Open the Bifrost!
He would open it if he could. I fear the worst.
Then we're trapped here forever.
Then I suppose we'd best start settling into our new lives. He looks to Darcy, turns on the charm.
Are all earth maidens as fair as you? Darcy enjoys the attention.
No. Thor shouts back up to the sky.
Heimdall!
Primitive. Good enough for hunting small game, I suppose. Suddenly, the Bifrost EXPLODES down from the sky. Thor grins. The mortals look on, amazed. Fandral turns to Darcy.
Sorry, my love. These things happen.
Know this, son of Coul. You and I, we fight for the same cause -- the protection of this world. From this day forward, count me as your ally.
Not stolen. Borrowed. Jane shoots him a look. Coulson quickly continues.
You'll get your equipment back. You're going to need it to continue your research... which, after today's events, SHIELD would like to fully sponsor. If that's all right with you. Thor takes Jane's hand, kisses it tenderly. She looks at him, her eyes filled with the fear that she may never see him again.
Whatever fate lies before me, you are part of it. He takes her in his arms, kisses her passionately. Thor and the Asgardians leap into the Bifrost.
 Get him to the healing room! Leave my brother to me.
He forms an ICE BLADE.
It's said you can still see and hear what transpires around you, even in this state. I hope it's true, so that you may know your death came by the hand of Laufey. He raises his blade above Odin's body, when --
And your death came by the son of Odin.
Standing behind him -- the sword stuck in his back. She looks to Loki, takes him in her arms.
I swear to you, mother, they will pay for what they've done today. I will end the Jotun threat, now and forever! He looks to Odin.
And I will make you proud. Loki savors the moment, but it's short-lived, as Thor bursts in. He's thrown by the scene before him -- Odin safe, Laufey and two Jotuns dead, Frigga regarding Loki with pride and respect. Stunned and delighted to see Thor, Frigga beams.
Thor! She moves to Thor and hugs him, but Thor's eyes remain fixed on his brother. Loki looks at Mjolnir in his brother's hand.
Found its way back to you, did it?
No thanks to you. Frigga picks up on the tension building between her sons.
What?
Why don't you tell her? How you sent the Destroyer to kill our friends? To kill me? Frigga looks to Loki, alarmed and confused.
It must have been enforcing Father's last command.
You're a talented liar, brother. Always have been.
Jotunheim...
All these years, and no one's ever dared to use it as a weapon. Thor hurries to the ice, raises his hammer to SMASH through it to get to the controls frozen within. Before he can, Loki fires Gungnir. The blast hits the ice in front of Thor, blasting him back across the floor. Loki steps down from the ice as Thor staggers to his feet.
You can't stop it. The Bifrost will build until it rips Jotunheim apart.
Why have you done this?
To do what Father never could. To destroy their kind forever. When he awakens, he'll see the wisdom of what I've done.
He won't! You can't kill an entire race!
What is this newfound love for the Frost Giants? You, who would have killed them all with your bare hands.
I've changed.
So have I. Loki hits Thor across the face with Gungnir.
Fight me. He swings Gungnir at Thor again. Thor catches it in his hand, rears back his hammer as if ready to return the blow, but instead takes to the air and flies past Loki, back towards the frozen controls. Loki spins around, aims Gungnir, and fires a blast which immobilizes Thor in the air. He hangs there, suspended.
Is the throne really worth what you've done? What you would become?
I never wanted the throne. I only wanted to be your equal. Now fight me!
I will not fight you, brother.
I am not your brother. I never was.
Loki, this is madness... Loki grins.
Is it? He FIRES Gungnir at Thor. Thor dodges the blast, rolls to his feet.
What happened to you on earth that turned you so soft? Don't tell me it was a woman. Thor doesn't answer. Loki laughs, realizing he's right.
It was. Perhaps when we're finished here I'll pay her a little visit myself. That did it. Loki and Thor rush at each other. They and their weapons collide. The two battle -- Loki unleashing years of pent-up rage and jealousy, Thor having no choice but to defend himself.
Jane?
Something's wrong.
The hammer flies into the Bifrost towards Jotunheim. Thor raises his hand towards his hammer, tries to summon it back to him, to keep it in this Realm, but the Bifrost is too powerful. Mjolnir disappears into the maelstrom as Thor himself slides towards the Bifrost.
If you care so much for the Jotuns, then die with them. The Bifrost stretches every cell of Thor's body, trying to drag him away. He's nearly swallowed by the vortex, when he concentrates, mustering his will. He reaches out his hand towards the Bifrost. MJOLNIR flies back through the maelstrom, into Thor's hand. The hammer pulls him free. Loki tries to fire off another blast at him, but Thor takes to the air, speeds towards his brother.
Thor! Help me! Thor steps over to the side of the Bridge, sees Loki looking up at him desperately.
Please... Loki's fingers start to slip. Thor reaches down to grab his brother's wrist, but his hand passes through Loki's. Just then, the REAL LOKI materializes behind him. Thor whirls around as Loki STABS him in the chest with Gungnir. Loki lifts Thor into the air, impaled on the spear, and hurls him across the bridge.
I was always more clever than you.
Yet still not clever enough. With that, Thor raises his hammer, rising into the air, summoning lightning. A massive bolt strikes Mjolnir, then channels outwards, splitting up, striking each one of the Lokis. All of them dissipate into nothingness, save one -- the real Loki -- who's sent flying back across the Bridge, Gungnir knocked from his grasp. Thor steps over to his fallen brother, lying dazed on his back. Loki winces, prepares for the worst, when Thor steps away. Loki opens his eyes, tries to stand, but can't. He looks confused, then sees what the problem is -- Mjolnir rests atop his chest. Struggle as he may, Loki can't lift it off. He's pinned to the ground. Thor looks about him desperately -- at the Bifrost firing towards Jotunheim, gaining in strength, at the surge of energy moving through the Bridge. He's at a loss of what to do. Loki watches him smugly.
Look at you, the Mighty Thor. With all your strength, what good does it do you now? Thor knows Loki's right. He's powerless to stop what's happening. He looks down at the Bridge beneath his feet, VIBRATING from the force and speed of the Bifrost energy feeding into the Observatory. Then he gets an idea. He realizes what he must do -- and what he must sacrifice. Thor extends his hand towards Loki, summoning Mjolnir. The hammer goes flying to his grasp. Loki looks confused.
Stop! What are you doing?! Thor lifts the hammer again, brings it down harder. BOOM! The crack grows bigger. The Bifrost energy starts to stream out from it. Loki thinks fast.
If you destroy the Bridge, you'll never see her again! Loki grabs Gungnir, runs towards him, ready to pierce Thor through the back.
Forgive me. Summoning every bit of strength he has left, Thor raises Mjolnir one last time, drawing lightning to it from all sides, and brings it down with a final, terrible blow -- KRAKABOOM! The Bifrost SHATTERS, rainbow energy EXPLODING out of it. Both Loki and Thor are hurled into the air by the force of the blast. A wave of destruction moves forward along the Bridge towards the Observatory, breaking it apart as it goes. The Observatory RIPS ITSELF APART. As Loki and Thor fall together, Thor grabs hold of one end of Gungnir, while Loki still clutches the other. They both fall towards the MASSIVE WAVE of Bifrost energy which spews out from the broken Bridge. They're an instant from being blasted by the destructive force of the energy, carried away by the current, pulverized by the debris, when --
Standing on the edge of the broken Bridge, awakened from the Odinsleep, restored to his full strength. Loki searches his father's face, looking for some kind of approval, some kind of redemption, but all he sees is disappointment and regret. Loki lets go.
No! But it's too late. Odin and Thor can only watch as Loki falls into the rushing torrent of Bifrost energy. It carries him away, along with the debris of the Bridge and the Observatory, disappearing out of sight. Odin pulls Thor up onto the Bridge. Drained, Thor falls back into his father's arms.
It is over.
It's gone.
...and then, with a mighty bellow, I flew at the great metal beast and laid it low...
Is that another way of saying you fell on your huge a--
As a matter of fact, falling down was a tactic. Lulling the Destroyer into a false sense of security!
Well, I was the one who had to drag your enormous carcass off the battlefield. That makes me the real hero. Doesn't it, Hogun? Hogun points to Volstagg.
Big stomach.  Big mouth. The other gathered Asgardians laugh. Volstagg and Fandral look to Hogun. The grim warrior gives just a trace of a smile.
Well, how about that? A smile! I'd say that calls for another drink! They laugh and raise another round. Frigga sits nearby, lost in thought, her face betraying the sadness she struggles to conceal. Sif notices, approaches Frigga, bows her head.
My Queen. I am so sorry for your loss. Frigga takes Sif's hand appreciatively.
Thank you, Sif. She looks to Thor, who's unable to enjoy the merriment around him.
How is he?
He mourns for his brother. And he misses her. The mortal. Frigga sees the trace of regret in Sif's face as she looks at Thor with new feelings. He rises and leaves the hall.
He will need his friends now more than ever.
I will always be at his side. Frigga understands, puts her arm around Sif gratefully.
You'll be a wise King.
There will never be a wiser king than you. Or a better father.
You've already made me proud. Odin leaves, Thor consoled by his words.
Can you see her? Heimdall turns, gazes out towards Earth.
Yes.
How is she?
Selvig orchestrates the process, giving instructions to the SCIENTISTS. We continue to track right outside the glass windows and rise up to find Jane sitting at the front of the roof, working at a small, improvised workstation, notebook at hand, as always. She sets up an impressive, HIGH-TECH DEVICE before her, which bears the "STARK INDUSTRIES" logo. From behind, Darcy approaches, hands her a flash drive.
Here you go.
Thanks. Jane inserts the flash drive into the device.
He would have come back if he could.
I know. But if he can't get here on his own... Jane hits a switch on the device. Suddenly, a 3-D HOLOGRAPHIC PROJECTION bursts to life over the device, bathing the two women in its glow. We recognize what it is -- YGGDRASIL, in all its beauty.
...maybe we can help him find his way back.
