But you're the pilot, aren't you?
Yes, I'm the pilot...  ... I'm not even asking for your phone number... BUSINESSMAN Isn't there a pilot whose name is Paul?
 Yeah, the copilot -- he's up front... The Businessman disappears in the direction of the cockpit. JACK  I'm leaving it all up to you, Jane, but if you do give me your phone number, then Jane, then... The Businessman has reached the cockpit. BUSINESSMAN  Are you Paul? PAUL (turning around nervously) Yeah... Are you Jim? BUSINESSMAN Yeah. He hands Paul a man's purse. BUSINESSMAN Here's your cash. PAUL What about the stuff? BUSINESSMAN I don't have it. We've got problems. Too much heat. Too
I mean shut up and listen. Two guys will be waiting for you in a black T-Bird, expecting the dope. Just ignore them. It'll be delivered to you on Sunday and picked up the following Thursday, okay? PAUL But I won't be home, I'll be in the air for two weeks. BUSINESSMAN That's your problem. Make arrangements, a deal's a deal. Got it!? PAUL Got it. Jack returns. JACK (bursting with excitement) I got her phone number!   She gave me her phone number! BUSINESSMAN That's some magnificent view, isn't it? JACK It's wonderful -- Life is wonderful! The Businessman goes back to his seat and Jack grabs hold of the microphone. JACK This is your captain speaking. In honor of your victory, in honor of your beauty, and in honor of Jane, the most beautiful gymnast I have ever met. I'm going to give you a little demonstration of aviation gymnastics -- reserved only for the most important guest, hip, hip... Everyone shouts "HOORAY!" except for Paul and the
God, what a woman! Paul is nervous, glancing uneasily from car to car. JACK Wanna share a cab? Paul Yeah, sure! A black Ford pulls up in front of them and its driver looks at Paul who immediately turns his back on him. JACK She's so beautiful! I've never been so in love before. Can you believe she gave me her phone number... Oh, Christ -- where is it?... Oh, no, don't tell me I lost it... It's a matter of life and death... Oh here it is -- thank God! All the while    Jack has been rambling on, a beige car on the other    side of the street has slowed down. Paul notices it.     In the beige car, a narcotics agent, GRATON, is behind the    wheel with one of his colleagues sitting beside him. GRATON They're slowing down.    Take a picture. The colleague snaps a picture of everyone who happens to be standing near the black Ford, including Jack and Paul. The black Ford pulls out. The beige car follows it. Paul observes all this out of the corner of his eye. PAUL Listen, I need a favor, I got
Yeah... I mean, it's like... There's this little package... JACK She'll never make it with all that luggage she's got. I gotta give her a hand. Look at the colors in her hair! Christ, I've never seen a woman like her before... He's about to walk off when Paul grabs him by the arm. PAUL Jack, listen, can I... JACK Sure you can, no problem... Listen, I gotta go now, I'm gonna see if she'll share a cab with me.  You take the shuttle, okay? PAUL But I gotta explain to you about... JACK Come over to my place tonight. We're having a huge party. Come around 9, okay? See ya later.
As exquisite as you are... I think I'm gonna faint. He kneels, takes her hand and puts it over his heart. The young woman is flabbergasted. A lonely-looking Paul hails the shuttle bus.
 I'm having a hard time.    I'm working on two at once. MICHAEL  Oh yeah, who? JACK The brunette in the armchair in the living room -- her name's Rosalie... MICHAEL
Clementine -- she's waiting for me in the den.
 Wait one second for me, I'll be right back. Michael walks off in the direction of Rosalie. Paul is wandering among the guests, trying to find Jack, he sees PETER who is talking with another young woman, NICOLE. Peter is nodding, idly looking around, com- pletely uninterested in the conversation. NICOLE You guys have a beautiful place here. But the rent must be a killer. Peter isn't paying attention. NICOLE Isn't it a killer? PETER What?... PETER Oh,    the rent... yeah, it's high but    split between the three of us    it isn't that bad, as long as    we don't eat. Nicole laughs. PAUL Hi Peter, I'm looking for Jack, have you seen him? PETER Oh hi, Paul, how are you doing? Yeah, sure, I'll take you to Jack.  Excuse me for a minute. They move away. PETER You're a lifesaver, I've been trying to get away from that woman
 He's around somewhere.     Check under all the couches. Paul walks off in Jack's direction. We STAY WITH Peter, who reaches Natalie. She is talking with a very styl- ishly-dressed, tall, young man, CARL.
Oh Natalie, I've been looking for you all night. CARL All night? I just saw you deep in conversation with Nicole! PETER Deep? Hell no, we were just talking shop. NATALIE Oh come on Peter, we all know what a ladies' man you are. PETER Who, me? Jack's the ladies' man, not me. You're the only lady I'm after. CARL  So tell me, how's your project coming along? I heard you're not ready yet. PETER We've still got two weeks left before the semi-finals. We'll be ready. CARL We've been ready for three days now. We're gonna kick your ass. NATALIE Their project is really incredible. PETER Oh really?   You've seen it?
 No, it's top secret but he's been telling me about it...
 Ours is incredible too. CARL If you ever get it finished. Paul comes up to Jack, who is kneeling before Clementine, whispering passionate sweet nothings in her ear. It appears he's gotten beyond the "This is love at first sight" stage. He's getting down to the nitty-gritty now. Clementine is thrilled. Paul taps Jack on the shoulder. PAUL Jack, can I talk to you for a second? JACK Oh, hi, Paul, yeah sure... JACK  ... Please darling, don't move... I'll be right back, okay? I'll bring us back some champagne... He disappears with Paul. JACK You're a lifesaver, Paul. I thought I'd never get away. Rosalie's waiting for me in the living room. Isn't she terrific? PAUL Who?   Rosalie? JACK Clementine. PAUL Oh yeah, for sure, I dunno. Listen, can you do me a favor? With some difficulty, Paul follows Jack as he picks his way through the people dancing, heading in Rosalie's direction.
Yeah... What kind of favor? Damn, I've got to get her a glass of champagne. PAUL Listen, I've got a little problem. I'm having a valuable package delivered to me on Sunday, but I'm not going to be home. I've got to do the Hawaii-Tahiti-Australia route, so can I have the package delivered here instead? JACK (filling a glass with champagne) Yeah, sure, of course. (he stops, thinking) No, wait, I'm leaving for South America tomorrow. I'll be gone for three weeks. JACK But it's okay. Peter and Michael will be here. They'll take care of it. PAUL Will you be sure to tell them about it? JACK Absolutely.   Don't worry about a thing. PAUL It'll be delivered Sunday and picked up next Thursday, okay? JACK Delivered Sunday picked up Thursday. Got it. No problem. PAUL This is a very delicate matter, Jack. It's very important they don't tell anybody about this package. It could be very... uh, embarrassing for me, you know what I'm saying? JACK Sure. You got it.    I'll see you later...
Not to anyone at all.    Tell them that, okay?
Okay, sure, not to anyone at all... Look, I'm sorry Paul, but I gotta get back to Rosalie. Now go have a good time. I'll take care of everything. PAUL Bye and thanks a lot.
Don't mention it. Paul leaves. Jack finally reaches the armchair where Rosalie is sitting. He stops short, obviously disappointed. JACK Uh-oh.   Too late. Michael is sitting next to Rosalie, right next to her. They get up to dance. As he passes Jack, Michael smiles broadly. MICHAEL All's fair, old buddy... Jack watches a moment, then breaks into a wide smile. JACK  Oh my darling, oh my darling, oh my darling Clementine. Jack whirls around and heads back towards Clementine.
Natalie, why don't you stay for a nightcap? NATALIE No, I've gotta get up early...
 Do you care to share a cab? NATALIE Oh yes, thanks -- that's really nice of you... CARL (smiling triumphantly; to Peter) Good night, Peter. PETER (with a forced smile) Good night, Carl... I'll call you Sunday, Natalie. She has already left.   The door closes on the last of the departing guests. MICHAEL So you struck out again with Natalie, huh? That Carl is a real smooth operator. PETER He's an asshole!  'I heard you're not ready yet.' 'We're gonna kick your ass.' Well, we may be behind schedule, but we're still going to beat that sonofabitch and maybe I haven't scored with Natalie yet, but neither has he. She's not an easy lay, that's what I like about her. You know what they say: it ain't over till it's over. Peter and Michael go into the living room. Peter is picking up glasses. Michael is emptying ashtrays into the wastebasket. MICHAEL Well, I didn't do so well either -- I blew it with Rosalie. I don't even know how... PETER Who's Rosalie? MICHAEL That beauty I managed to swipe
Your old friend Sophia appeared and got you involved in a thrilling conversation about modern art, and meanwhile Rosalie... MICHAEL How could you know that? PETER Michael, all you want to do is steal Jack's girl friends. You don't give a shit about the women themselves... MICHAEL That's not true. It's just that Sophia drives me crazy. She knows all the right buttons to push to make me mad. PETER (going into the kitchen) Anyway, it was a great party, everyone had a good time... MICHAEL (still in the living room, shouting to Peter) Terrific... time. He, too, leaves the living room and runs into Jack, who has his arm around Clementine's waist as he heads toward his bedroom with her.
Where's Jack?    Did he leave? MICHAEL No, he's cuddling up with a blonde named Clementine... PETER That's not Clementine. I saw him doing his famous routine with Christie...
No, it is Clementine, the one with the tits this big... PETER Christie's got tits that big, too... MICHAEL Yeah, but he was with Christie at the beginning of the evening -- after that he was with Rosalie and then with Clementine. And since I stole Rosalie away from him... Are you following this?
I'm not. Jack enters the kitchen in very high spirits, singing. JACK Nice work if you can get it, and you can get it if you try... Any scotch left? PETER Yeah, here, I just put it away. JACK Sorry I can't give you guys a hand, but I've got something cooking. PETER I thought you were leaving at dawn for South America? JACK I am, the night's still young!... It's gonna be a lively one. I'm gonna make us a little snack. He makes up a tray with sandwiches. MICHAEL So, who is it anyway -- Christie or Clementine? JACK Maxine.    Beautiful, enchanting Maxine. Peter and Michael look at one another surprised, mouthing silently, "Maxine?"
Hey, Michael -- how'd it go with Rosalie? MICHAEL Well, things were going great until... JACK Your old friend Sophia appeared and dragged you into a thrilling conversation about modern art and in the meantime Rosalie took off with someone else. MICHAEL How did you know? JACK I dunno -- lucky guess... MICHAEL Well, I don't give a damn anyway, I have 24 drawings to hand in to my editor three days from now and I gotta work all night anyway... So it was all for the best. But you better not leave that Maxine's phone number lying around because when I'm done... JACK Don't worry, I'll leave you her phone number on the hall table. If she's really terrific I'll put a big 'X' next to it. 'Bye, guys -- love ya. I won't wake you tomorrow morning. See you in three weeks...
The model's not finished, the blueprints are a mess and you may as well forget the specs, they're a disaster! I know we're talented. I know we're good. Then why is it we can never get organized? Why is it we're always behind schedule? JAY Look, Jerry, architects since Leonardo have always been behind schedule. It's a tradition, for
JERRY Because this is the chance of a lifetime for our company, and there happens to be a deadline. There are millions of dollars at stake here. And our main competition had their project in three days ago! PETER Yeah, but word around town is their project's a piece of shit!
Of course, it's a piece of shit, but it's a ready piece of shit. JAY We're just going to have to buckle down, that's all. JERRY You're damn right we are. Starting now, everybody works around the clock! Everybody! We have two weeks to be ready for the semi- final selection. And we will be ready. And we will win. You want to know why we'll win? JAY Because we're gonna cheat. PETER I'll go bribe the judges! JERRY I don't think this is a joking matter, gentlemen. PETER Come on, Jerry... A SECRETARY enters. SECRETARY There's an urgent call for you, Peter. PETER I'm not in.
It's Jack -- he says it's 'super important...' Peter picks up the phone.
Hi... yeah... listen, make it quick, I'm in a meeting here... yeah, a package... okay... someone'll drop it off Sunday and pick it up Thursday... No problem ... yeah... we'll put it aside, okay... no, no, we won't tell anybody about it... Is that it?... Right, we won't tell anyone... Hey -- love 'n' kisses to the Brazilian girls, vaya con dios, old buddy. Peter hangs up, laughing.    Jerry gives him a dirty look. PETER What?
I'm going out for bagels -- how many you want, three or four? MICHAEL  What time is it? PETER Eleven-thirty. MICHAEL A.M. or P.M.? PETER A.M.    C'mon, up 'n' at 'em. MICHAEL Up 'n' at 'em yourself, asshole -- I just went to bed. PETER
 You gotta be kidding! Abruptly he turns and races back to Michael's room. PETER Michael!    Michael! MICHAEL  What? PETER Get your ass out here and see what's on the doorstep.  This has gotta be somebody's idea of a joke! They run to the front door. MICHAEL What is it? PETER Look for yourself. MICHAEL It's a basket with a baby in it.
No shit. (reads Michael the letter) 'Dearest Jack, here is the fruit of our love. Take good care of her. I have to go to Europe and Japan for six months, her name is Mary. Good luck, Love, Sylvia.' MICHAEL What are we going to do with it? PETER Give it back to her mother, that's what. MICHAEL But it says she went to Europe. PETER Well, we'll see about that, d'you have her phone number? MICHAEL Whose phone number? SYLVIA The girl's... Sylvia's... MICHAEL Why the hell would I have her number? I've never even heard of this chick! PETER You mean you don't know who she is? MICHAEL No way. If I had to keep track of all Jack's girlfriends, I'd have to be a full-time secretary. PETER Well, what are we gonna do? MICHAEL Hey, look, she's waking up... Hey, look, she's crying... PETER Oh no, this can't be happening! She's not gonna start to cry now?! MICHAEL
What's her problem? MICHAEL Maybe she's hungry? PETER Well, what are we s'posed to do? MICHAEL Feed her, I guess... PETER Yeah, but what?
Soft stuff... I guess. PETER  Oh no, I swear to God this is unreal! Can you believe that bastard Jack?! 'A little package,' he tells me on the phone, 'just put it aside till Thursday.' Put it aside -- can you believe him!? MICHAEL Really?   Jack said that? PETER Yeah and he also said 'don't tell anyone about it -- anyone at all.' MICHAEL Oh, so he told you about this? PETER Yeah, he told me a package would be coming today, but he didn't say it'd be this! MICHAEL  Boy, he's got a helluva nerve! PETER Just listen to the racket she's making! What are we s'posed to do? MICHAEL  Let's call Jack's mother!
She lives in Miami for Christsake. She can't stop the baby crying from Miami. MICHAEL Well, just to ask her advice... PETER No, he said not to tell anyone... MICHAEL But this is an emergency! PETER No! No way! You know what a pain that woman is -- she'll be on the next plane here to move in with us... MICHAEL Maybe I should call my mother... PETER No, please -- leave the mothers out of this, okay?! It's only four days. We should be able to handle that, besides you know the rule around here: it's fine to have a woman over once in a while, but... Michael finishes the sentence in unison with him. PETER AND MICHAEL ... never for more than one night at a time! PETER And that includes mothers! Peter steps over the basket and heads towards the elevator. MICHAEL Where are you going?! PETER I'm going to the store to buy some baby food. MICHAEL What am I supposed to do while you're gone? PETER Pick her up and hold her.
 Whaddya mean, pick her up? I've never held a baby -- I'll drop her!
PETER What aisle's baby food on? CLERK Down there by the meat section. Peter heads for it purposefully. When he    gets to the right aisle, he stops short, taken aback:    a vast range of products extends before him. He starts    examining the baby food jars and cans of formulas, going   from one to the next, not knowing where to begin.
So what's the best brand?
Depends on what your pediatrician recommends. PETER Oh right, the pediatrician... But which one sells the most? STORE CLERK (pointing to a can) This kind. PETER Oh, so this is the best kind?
It's the cheapest. PETER Then it's the worst kind? STORE CLERK They're all good, sir. PETER (pointing to another can) Oh, okay, then I can take this kind. STORE CLERK It's got iron in it. PETER Oh.   Is that good or bad? STORE CLERK It's very good. PETER Well, why don't they all have iron in them? STORE CLERK Some babies are allergic to iron. PETER (pointing to yet another can) Oh, okay, well I'll take this kind then. STORE CLERK That kind doesn't have any milk in it.
Oh, I see, there's milk with no milk in it? STORE CLERK Some babies are allergic to milk.
So what's the stuff that no babies are allergic to? STORE CLERK Soy formula. PETER Oh, okay, I'll take the soy formula.
That one's Advance. PETER Oh really?   What's Advance? STORE CLERK How old's your baby? PETER (Peter tries to estimate Mary's size) Uh... about this old.
Rock-a-bye baby on the tree top... MICHAEL Stop crying now; c'mon, stop... quit it, will you?... When the wind blows, the cradle will rock... What is that jerk doing? Milking the cows or something?... When the bough breaks the cradle will fall... MARY only SCREAMS LOUDER.
Does she have any teeth yet or not? That would give us a clue as to how old she is. PETER I haven't looked.
 My grandson's only five months old and he already has two teeth. But my daughter didn't have a single one at seven months -- so, y'know, how many teeth they have... doesn't mean a thing. WOMAN #2 But didn't those friends of yours tell you what formula they usually give the baby? PETER  No, actually they had to leave unexpectedly. They had to catch a plane... WOMAN #1  Is she teething? PETER Teething? WOMAN #1 Does she drool? Does she cry all night long? Does she chew on her fists? Does she put everything into her mouth? She acts out her words. PETER I know she can't talk. WOMAN #2
 I told you they had to leave unexpectedly. WOMAN #1 Or else you could weigh her; that would tell you how old she is. STORE CLERK See, my five-month-old grandson weighs more than my neighbor's grandson and he's nine months old. So, y'know, how much they weigh... doesn't mean a thing. PETER So what about me? What should I buy? WOMAN #2 Didn't they even tell you the pediatrician's name? PETER  No.   They didn't. WOMAN #2 You sure have weird friends. PETER You have no idea how weird. WOMAN #1 Or else her hair. Does she have lots of hair? STORE CLERK My grandson, y'know, he has so much hair you can make a ponytail with it! And I know some kids who are totally bald at a year- and-a-half. So, y'know, how much hair they have... doesn't mean a thing... WOMAN #1  Gee, he's really something, your grandson -- is he good at math too?
Look, ladies, thanks for all the advice. But I think I'll just take one of each. To be on the safe side. STOCK CLERK  Don't forget -- if the baby's less than three months old, you have to be sure to sterilize the bottles.
What bottles? WOMAN #2 You know what?     This must be a kidnapping.
Mary had a little lamb, little lamb, little lamb, if that jerk isn't back in three seconds I swear I'll throw her down the garbage chute... Mary had a little lamb, little lamb... The DOORBELL RINGS. MICHAEL Well, it's about goddamn time! He hurries towards the door, grabs the knob and throws it open. MICHAEL Where the hell have you been? He stops. Before him stands the apartment MANAGER, Mrs. Razzolini, a squat little woman with a moustache. MICHAEL Oh -- Hi, Mrs. Razzolini!
This package came for you... Oh! What a cute little baby! Is it yours?
No, it's not me, I mean she's not mine... MANAGER Oh, so it's Peter's? MICHAEL No, no, it's Jack's, I mean it's not Jack's, it's... someone loaned it to us, I mean someone... MANAGER And what's the little girl's name? MICHAEL Mary. MANAGER Ooh, what a pwetty wittle name, Mary! I didn't know you had a baby... MICHAEL Yeah, well, I have to put her to bed now. MANAGER You have to put her to bed?    Where's Mary's mommy? MICHAEL She's... she's not here.   She'll be back soon. Michael starts to close the door.    She pushes it back open and holds out the package. MANAGER Oh here, this just came for you. They just dropped it off. Can I hold her for a second? MICHAEL Well, like, y'see... she doesn't like to be held by strangers... The apartment Manager has already given Michael the package and grabbed Mary. She covers her with kisses. Mary smiles. Michael absent-mindedly looks at the package.
She loves to be held by strangers! Hey, she's soaking wet hmm, no I think it's number 2. Want me to give you a hand changing her?
Oh no, don't worry, I'm used to it.  Well, so long, Mrs. Razzolini. MANAGER 'Bye, Mary, I'll come back to visit.
WOMAN #2 This guy doesn't even know how old his baby is and you don't find that strange? WOMAN #1 This guy asked for advice,   I'm giving him advice, Okay?    If you're so paranoid, why don't you   run home and chain your kid to   his crib? WOMAN #2 Anyway, I think someone should call the cops. WOMAN #1
MICHAEL What the hell were you doing? You've been gone for hours! This damn kid's been crying the whole time. I've got a lot better things to do with my time! You're a real pain in the ass! PETER  Hey, how dare you speak to me like that! You've never spoken to me like that before... MICHAEL Well, what the hell took   you so long? What'd you do, go    out for breakfast or something?    I didn't even have time for a cup   of coffee, for chrissakes. PETER Will you please cut it out for a second, huh? I didn't have any coffee either, it took me forever at the goddamn Safeway. MICHAEL Okay, well, here -- take the kid, I've got work to do. PETER Whaddaya mean, take the kid? I can't hold her and make her bottle at the same time. And why should I be the one to hold her? MICHAEL 'Cause, it's your problem.    You found this kid. PETER Hey, asshole, I'm the one who found
To figure out how old she is so we know what to feed her, that's why. Peter attempts to look into Mary's mouth but she squirms. MICHAEL Do you look on top or bottom? PETER How do I know? MICHAEL Try feeling with your finger. Peter slides his finger over Mary's gums. PETER I can't feel anything -- I'll give her the stuff for newborns and hope she's not allergic to it. Peter starts off toward the kitchen, Michael follows. PETER And then we'll    have to  see if she's allergic    to iron,  to soy or to milk --    you can't  imagine how much stuff    they can  be allergic to! MICHAEL She's soaking wet -- did you buy any diapers? PETER Diapers? MICHAEL
Excuse me, miss, could you tell me which diapers are the most absorbent? STORE CLERK I would suggest the ones that say 'ultra-absorbent.' MICHAEL Yeah, but which are better:    20-35 pounds or 12-24 pounds? STORE CLERK  Depends how much your baby weighs. MICHAEL Oh right, how much she weighs... STORE CLERK  You wouldn't happen to have a friend who came in here a little while ago, would you? Michael grabs just any box of diapers. MICHAEL I have no idea what you're talking about! He's no friend of mine. Michael takes off very, very quickly.
Oh shit, my slacks! Goddamn her, she took a crap!
Hold her.   Hold her, goddamn it! MICHAEL I can't hold her. This kid's out of control here! PETER Just gimme the cotton. Michael lets go of Mary's feet and she sticks them back in the crap. PETER Oh for chrissake, don't just let go of her! MICHAEL Then get the cotton yourself if you don't want me to let go of her! Peter grabs a huge wad of cotton. PETER Take the towels off -- They're full of shit. MICHAEL But the couch'll get dirty! PETER Yeah, but she keeps getting it all over herself. Man, this shit is sticky!... We need cleaning fluid or something to get it off... MICHAEL How 'bout after-shave? PETER Are you kidding?! Waste our Saint Laurent on babyshit? MICHAEL Okay, let's just put the diaper
Right. Michael hands him a diaper.        Peter tries to figure out how it goes on. PETER These tape things -- do they go on the front or the back? MICHAEL How am I supposed to know...? Peter tries to slide the diaper under Mary's backside but she squirms and kicks it off with her feet. PETER Hold her under her arms -- I'm gonna try it this way. Michael holds Mary under    her armpits.     Peter tries to put the diaper on her. It's     hard. What's     more, it would seem that Michael didn't    buy the right    size -- The diaper comes all the way    up to Mary's    chin. PETER What the hell kind of lousy stinking diapers did you get? They're way too big! MICHAEL I don't think they're too big -- They're ultra-absorbent. That's all. The more absorbent the better. Peter has more or less managed to adjust the diaper. PETER How the hell do these tape things work? Hold her for chrissakes! MICHAEL My arms are getting tired. PETER There.     I got it. He tapes the diaper closed. PETER Damn it.     I didn't make it tight enough.
It's not working... What about laying her down?
Go ahead... No, not on the towels, they're all covered with crap... Michael lays Mary down right on the couch. Peter vigor- ously undoes the tape, and the whole PLASTIC lining RIPS apart. PETER ... What the hell is this friggin' mess? Oh, man, this is unbelievable! To think, they bombard us day and night with their goddamn TV commercials! And will you look at this junk? This stuff is pure shit -- You tape it closed, it sags, you undo the tape: bingo -- the whole goddamn thing falls apart! MICHAEL  Well, whaddya expect, if you pull on it like an ape, it's gonna rip! PETER Michael, will you give me a break, will you please? Peter takes the torn diaper off. MARY utters a TINY CRY and pees copiously all over the velvet couch. PETER  Oh shit! Now she's pissing. Look at the couch. The sneaky little bitch was just waiting for me to get the diaper off, then whammo... Mary gives them a big smile. PETER I happen to like my furniture. I'm going out to get some real diapers.  You can clean the couch up in the meantime. He exits, slamming the door.
 I need to reach Jack Collins, he's one of your pilots... No, I don't know exactly where he is, but he was supposed to be flying the Miami-Caracas-Rio route... The guy who proposed to you?... Oh, did he?... Well, congratulations. Please... listen to me... you must contact him and tell him he's got to call home immediately. Okay? It's an emergency, a family problem... No, don't worry, he's not married to someone else. It's another kind of family
Peter hangs up.
Maybe she's allergic to something? MICHAEL Or maybe she's hungry again. PETER Already?
MICHAEL Make it snappy, will ya, she's famished.
Oh shit, she's soaking wet again.
Hello, Natalie? It's Peter. Listen, I'm really screwed. Jerry just called and we've run into a snag with the blueprints for the competition, it's an emergency. I've gotta go over to the office right away, I think it's gonna be an all-nighter... Of course I didn't know about this yesterday -- he just called me. Mary reaches out and begins to jab the buttons on the phone. Peter pulls her back. PETER Hello? Hello?... No, I'm not trying to hang up on you. We're having some problems with the phone, that's all... No, Natalie, there's no one else here! You're the only woman I... I swear I'm not lying to you... What? You're going to call Carl?  Okay, go ahead, call him if you want. I don't give a shit... Of course I'm not jealous. What makes you think I'm jealous?
 Jerry, hi, it's Peter. Listen, I've run into some problems, I can't make it today... (holding the receiver at arm's length from his ear) ... Hey, take it easy, will you... I'm sick. Seriously ill. I'm burning up... The doctor had to come, I've gotta stay in bed till Friday. (shouting to drown out Jerry shouting) Hey, hey, hey, I'll work round the clock all weekend long... I swear, Jerry, I am not lying to you...
 I'm terribly sorry, Mr. Oxman, but I've run into a few problems, I won't be able to bring you the drawings tomorrow morning as I
Michael sees Mary kick over a bottle of india ink over his drawings. He winces.
 On second thought, Mr. Oxman... uh, better make that the end of next week. (shouting on the other end) Please don't get upset, Mr. Oxman. I'll do everything possible to get them to you sooner... You have my word... I apologize again, Mr. Oxman... Thank you again, Mr. Oxman. Goodb... (an audible click) ... Mr. Oxman? Hello, Mr. Oxman?
He didn't say what time? PETER All he said was Thursday. MICHAEL Terrific! -- We could rot here till eight o'clock tonight. PETER Well, I'm prepared to rot here till midnight if I have to, as long as we get rid of her. MICHAEL Jack really could have called. He has to have gotten our message by now. PETER Well, when he does call, I'm gonna let him have it! That sonofabitch is on the beaches of Brazil proposing to the whole goddamn world. And we're here living in hell! He's gonna get his ass on the next plane back here. Vacation's over, Jack-baby, you better believe it. MICHAEL  Damn right!  It's almost time for her bottle, you know. PETER Oh hell!
Graton gets out of his car    and heads for the building. He glances into the lobby,    then goes in. He watches the elevator floor indicator,    notes the floor it stops on, then calmly returns to his    car.
Jack Collins live here? MICHAEL Yes, he does. PUNK #1 We came for the package. PETER Package? Oh that's cute, referring to her as a package! Anyway, you can tell Sylvia she's a lousy stinking bitch. PUNK #1 Sylvia? PETER Yeah, Sylvia! You can tell her she's got a hell of a nerve dumping her problems into our laps! PUNK #1  Problems? Did you guys have trouble? MICHAEL 
Do you have any idea what it's been like around here for the past four days?
She could have at least given us a phone number or the name of someone to contact... PUNK #1  I don't get it. Didn't they tell you we were gonna be here today?
Sure they told us! So what? That doesn't make the last four days any less hellish than they were! PETER Well, anyway, they're here now, that's all that matters! Peter turns and walks toward the basket. PETER The next bottle's in 45 minutes. I made it already. It's in the basket. PUNK #1 Bottle?   Whadda ya mean, bottle? MICHAEL About an hour after her bottle, she starts yawning. Put her to bed right away or it's pure hell for the next three hours, at least that's what we've noticed. Peter has returned with the basket. The Punks look at the baby, their eyes wide with disbelief. PUNK #1 What the hell is that?   A baby? PETER  No, it's a very short teenager. Of course it's a baby! Now listen carefully: I'm giving you a can of the milk she's been getting. She loves it, and more importantly,
Punk #1 hears "powder" and catches on.
Oh! I get it!      Powdered milk! Very clever! PETER Yeah, right... real clever... Okay, here. She's all yours. Good luck.
Okay, I got it. You can take her out now. PETER Take what out?     I'm not taking anything out. PUNK #1 Wait a minute, I don't get it! We take the basket and the milk, that's all. We ain't gonna take the... what's inside. PETER Whadda ya mean, what's inside? MICHAEL You take it all, man!    It's a package deal! PUNK #1 But what are we s'posed to do with it? MICHAEL How do I know? You take it where they told you to take it. PUNK #1 Y'mean, I take it to the connection? MICHAEL Yeah, whatever you want to call it. PUNK #1 Are you sure that's the plan?
You bet that's the plan! We're not keeping her one more second. PUNK #1 Okay, if that's the plan... He passes the basket to Punk #2 PUNK #1 ... Here, hold this. Okay, so long! They start to leave, pressing the elevator button.
 Oh shit, I don't have it on me... But I'll call you. Okay, so long! PETER & MICHAEL So long! The elevator has arrived.    The Punks quickly slip inside it with the basket. Michael closes the door. Peter plops down in the armchair by the front door. PETER Aah, relief at last!    Good riddance! MICHAEL You said it! Now maybe I can get some work done. He disappears in the direction of his room. Peter is sitting    on something hard. He pulls it out from under him, it's    a package. He looks at it, casually reading: "Care     of Jack Collins." He tosses it to the side. Suddenly,     it dawns on him. He leaps up, grabs the package and    runs into Michael's room.
 What the hell is this? MICHAEL Well, a package, I guess. PETER Was this package delivered to you? MICHAEL Yeah, why? Peter raises his voice, exasperated by Michael's calm attitude. PETER When the hell did this package arrive? MICHAEL Will you quit shouting! PETER (screaming even louder) When did this fucking package fucking arrive, Michael? MICHAEL I don't know... Oh yeah, Sunday -- Mrs. Razzolini brought it up... PETER Holy shit! MICHAEL What's the matter? PETER This is the package those guys came for, not the baby, you asshole. MICHAEL Hey, asshole yourself!... Oh shit! Peter nods and begins to bark orders. PETER Look out the window and see if you see them, I'm gonna try to
PUNK #2 We'd be better off taking the subway. PUNK #1 You want to ride the subway with a hundred grand in uncut dope, go ahead. PUNK #2 Well we can't ride around carrying this baby basket.    We'll get stopped by the cops. PUNK #1 So go ahead, take the subway and stop bothering me. I'm going to hook this onto the back seat.
It'll never hold, man. PUNK #1 (desperately going at the hook and the basket) Goddamn hook! Christ, what a stupid idea hiding the shit with this kid. It's ridiculous! Peter comes rushing out of the building. PETER  Oh, thank God, you're still here! There's been a terrible mistake. That wasn't the package you were s'posed to take. It was another one. I have it right here. PUNK #1 What do you mean? What other package? PETER I'll take the basket back and give you the other package, here. No mistake. Peter takes the package from his pocket and is about to grab the basket. Punk #1 pushes him back violently. PUNK #1 You ain't takin' nothin' back, man. PETER But I'm tellin you it was a mistake... PUNK #1 (in a low but very aggressive tone) You tryin' to double-cross us or something? Beat it before I get pissed, man. PETER (panic-stricken, in an equally low tone) But I'm telling you, I've got your package right here. There's been a mistake...
A mistake my ass! Now get outa here, man, or I'm gonna stick this right in your gut.
 Start the bike. Punk #2 is about to get on the motorcycle.   Peter stops him. PETER But I'm telling you, I've got the real package in my pocket. PUNK #2  Watch it, the cops! Peter quickly puts back the package in his pocket. A patrol car comes up next to them, right beside the car in which Graton is sitting, taking in every bit of the action. GRATON  Terrific! I bet these morons screw up everything. One of the COPS gets out of his car and comes over to the Punks and Peter. Peter is scared stiff. PUNK #1  If you called the cops on us, pal, you're a dead man. COP #1 All right, what's that doing on the back of the bike? No one answers. COP #1 You wouldn't by any chance be intending to drive with a baby basket on your motorcycle, would you? PUNK #1 Of course not, Officer. We'd never do something like that.
So why did you strap it on in the first place if you had no intention of driving with it? PUNK #2 So it wouldn't fall off. COP #1 Very funny. As he speaks, Peter undoes the bungie cord from around the basket and takes it off the motorcycle. PETER No, really, Officer, they weren't gonna drive off with it -- They were just watching it for me while I was doing a quick errand.  Thanks, guys. Punk #1 gives him a dirty look. COP #1 All right, let's see some identification, everybody. The punks exchange a glance.   Suddenly Punk #1 shouts: PUNK #1 Go! They take off running in different directions. Cop #1 charges after Punk #1 and yells to his partner who's still in the car: COP #1 Watch the guy with the basket! Cop #2 leaps out of the car, gun in hand. Peter stiffens with fear. COP #2 Freeze! All right, asshole, let's see some I.D. PETER  Listen, Officer, let's stay calm now. I haven't the slightest intention of running. I am not a criminal. I'm an architect. COP #2 (calming down
Your I.D., let's see it. PETER I'm terribly sorry, Officer, but I don't have any identification on me. I just came down with my baby to run a quick errand. I haven't committed any crime. COP #2 All right, let's go, in the car. I'm taking you down to the station. PETER Oh, c'mon, that's impossible -- you see I have a baby. I have to give her a bottle in fifteen minutes, I can't go anywhere. I live right in this building -- let me go up to my apartment and I'll get you my license immediately... You can even come with me if you like... COP #2 All right, lead the way. They disappear inside the building. Peter is carrying the basket in his left hand; his right hand is clenched on the horrible package hidden in his pocket. Just then Cop #1 comes running back, empty-handed. Graton gets out of his car and comes up to Cop #1, show- ing him his badge. GRATON  Inspector Graton, Narcotics. It just so happens I was tailing those two guys and now because of you clowns I lost them, probably forever. Thanks a lot! COP #1 How could we know? GRATON Forget it. Listen, your partner went in here with the guy and the baby. He lives up on the tenth floor. I can't go in because if he sees me, my cover is blown. So could you please try not to lose this one, okay? He's someone who's
 This is it. Please come in... can I get you a cup of coffee or something? COP #2 No thanks.   I'll just wait out here. Peter enters the apartment and calmly crosses through the house, carrying the basket. As soon as he's out of the cop's sight, he starts running like a madman down the corridor. He runs into Michael who was just coming to meet him. MICHAEL Hey, what's happening? What were those cops doing... Peter shuts him up, grabs him roughly under the arm and leads him into his room, closing the door behind them. Peter speaks softly but he's totally freaking out, he can hardly breathe. PETER Michael... Michael... we're in deep trouble. The package... The package... MICHAEL Yeah?   What? PETER There's a cop on the doorstep... He didn't see you... He mustn't see you... We're in deep trouble, Michael... MICHAEL Tell me what... PETER The package  they came for wasn't the baby, it  was dope, drugs, a shitload of  dope! We were stopped by some cops  down on the street.
But did the cops see the dope? PETER No, it's right here.
Shit! PETER We'll get twenty years if the cops find this on us! Climb down the fire escape and hide it... anywhere! Michael takes the package, opens the window and starts to climb out it when Peter stops him. PETER Hey, whatever you do,   don't lose the goddamn dope, we   gotta be able to return it to   those dealers or we're dead. Those    guys are serious. MICHAEL Don't worry. He starts down the fire escape, then stops and turns back. MICHAEL Oh, by the way, I put some water up to boil for her bottle. Michael disappears. Peter picks up Mary, grabs his  wal- let and leaves the room. When he gets to the hall,  he discovers that Cop #1 has joined Cop #2, to whom he is whispering something. Peter holds his license out  for them to see. PETER Here's my license. COP #1 I'm afraid I'm going to have to ask you to remain in the apartment. The narcotics squad will be arriving any moment now. They want to ask you a few questions. PETER Narcotics squad? What do they want with me? I don't even use aspirin!
Hello, Officers... What's going on? PETER Don't worry, Michael, it's nothing serious, just a little misunderstanding. MICHAEL Did you give her the 5:30 bottle? PETER Yeah, I just gave it to her.
Did you change her? PETER No, she's soaking wet.
Okay, I'll do it. Michael puts down his bag of groceries, takes Mary from Peter and disappears with the box of diapers. In his room, he lays Mary down on his bed and starts undressing her.
And who's he? PETER He's my roommate. AGENT #1  Oh, I see, I see... PETER No, you don't see. There are three of us sharing this place. AGENT #1 Oh, three, huh? A regular 'mirage a trois'! PETER It's 'menage'... and it's not. We all have lots of girlfriends, thank you. AGENT #1 Uh-huh, so what's your friend do? PETER He's a cartoonist. AGENT #1 What about the other guy? PETER He's a pilot. AGENT #1 Ah-hah... Now that's interesting... 
So does this friend of yours ever fly to South America? PETER No.   Never.   Only North America. The PHONE RINGS. AGENT #1 Would you object if I answered it for you? PETER Not at all, go right ahead.    I've got nothing to hide. Agent #1 picks up the phone and listens. AGENT    #1 It's a collect call    from a Jack Collins in La Paz,    Bolivia. That wouldn't happen to    be your pilot friend, would it?     The one who never goes to South    America? PETER Yes, it is him. Agent #1 hands him the phone. PETER Hello, yes, operator, I accept the charges. Agent #1 gestures to Agent #3 to take a look around the apartment. Agent #3 slips away. AGENT #1 Would you mind very much if I listened? PETER Please, go right ahead. Agent #1 picks up the other telephone. PETER Hello, Jack? Fine, yeah. How're you? Yeah, he's fine, too. Yeah, we left a message for you, right... No, it was nothing
PETER  I said everything's fine! The what?... I don't know what you're talking about... Oh yeah, the package! Yeah, yeah, it got here ... and was picked up, uh-huh. Hey! Why didn't you call sooner? Huh? 'Cause what?... Oh, you're onto something hot -- well, aren't you the lucky one!... So when are you getting married?... Forget it, I was just kidding... Well, everything's fine up here. So have a good time. See you in a couple of weeks. 'Bye. Peter hangs up.   So does Agent #1. AGENT #1 Now that's interesting. So you wanna tell me about this package and the hot something-or-other your friend lucked onto... in La Paz... Bolivia... South America? Peter sits down, stunned.
Okey-dokey, honeybunch, it's time to go beddy-bye now... We're gonna take a nice long nappy-wappy... He goes back to the living room, followed by Agent #3.
Do you recognize anyone in this picture? Peter looks: it's the photo of Jack and Paul that was taken at the beginning of the movie.
 Sure.   This is Jack Collins. AGENT #1 Oh yeah?   Now that's interesting. Michael has laid Mary down for a nap in her basket, observed by the five cops. He now sits down, cheerful and bubbling over with enthusiasm. MICHAEL So! Can I get you something to drink? Agent #1 totally ignores him. AGENT #1 So, who's the baby belong to? PETER It's Jack's daughter. AGENT #1 And why are you two taking care of her? PETER Because her mother's in Europe for six months, and since Jack had to be away for two weeks, I took my vacation to take care of her, I love kids. MICHAEL Yeah, Peter and I just love kids! AGENT #1 Now that's interesting. Well, we'll be seeing each other again soon, in fact very soon. In the
All the cops head for the door. Michael accompanies them, putting on a very urbane act.
Come back anytime, gentlemen. You're always welcome here. We have no particular plans to leave New York in the near future, so don't worry about us now. 'Bye now. Once the cops are gone, Michael races back to the living room. Peter has collapsed into his armchair.
 Christ, what a mess! They'll be on our tails around the clock! How the hell are we gonna get rid of the goddamn dope?! By the way, where is it? MICHAEL (also speaking in a low tone) It's cool, don't worry, I got it stashed. PETER Where? Michael points to Mary's bottom. PETER Huh? MICHAEL This way it's close at hand! PETER Are you out of your mind?? MICHAEL Relax, will you. MICHAEL I diapered the dope on her right in front of the cop and he never noticed a thing! PETER I told the cops we were taking care of her. You realize we're now stuck with the kid till Jack
Wait a minute. You're not gonna stick me with this kid! Tell them you need a maternity leave, tell them anything, but we've got to go 50-50 on this! PETER And that's not all -- we haven't heard from the punks yet either!
 That's right, you heard right: I'm not coming in to work for two weeks... No, I can't explain why...  ... Because I can't, that's all!... NO, this has nothing to do with chasing ass! Jerry... Jerry! Will you stop screaming for a minute and listen? I'm in trouble, you understand? Deep trouble... I know... I know... PETER  ... Goddammit, Jerry, of course winning the competition is important to me! The firm's my whole life if you must know. No, no, please -- don't send anyone over here... Don't you come either. No, Jerry... Okay, listen, I'll be there in a half-hour, but I can't stay long. No! Don't come here! I'll be right over. He hangs up.   Michael enters the room, with his coat on. MICHAEL
You're going now? MICHAEL Yeah, but don't worry about it, I'll be back before it's time for her next bottle. She's asleep now. PETER Terrific, just terrific! Jerry just called: I have to go to the office right now. MICHAEL Well, call him back. Tell him you'll come later. PETER There's no way. I can't, he's suicidal. Why don't you call Oxman and tell him you'll be there in a few hours. MICHAEL You're crazy. Oxman is leaving in an hour. If I don't meet him before then, I blow my 15,000 dollar contract. PETER Oh shit, I can't take this anymore! MICHAEL Look, maybe we could pawn her off on Mrs. Razzolini, just for a couple of hours -- she's crazy about her! PETER Good idea!    Let's go.
Wait -- I hear someone... I'll go see... Peter waits with the basket.   Michael tiptoes to the corner of the corridor.
RAZZOLINI Yes, I brought a package up to them... I think it was last Sunday...
What are these people like? What kind of lifestyle do they have? Michael hastily returns to Peter, still on tiptoes. He leads him back to the elevator and pushes the elevator button. MICHAEL  Just as I thought -- the goddamn cops are grilling Mrs. Razzolini. PETER Oh shit! We sure as hell can't hand her the baby with an ass full of dope... right in front of the narcs! The elevator has arrived meanwhile. PETER  What should we do? I really gotta go... MICHAEL Listen, she's just had her bottle. She's sleeping like a log. Let's just leave her in the apartment. What can possibly happen to her? She's as regular as clockwork. She won't wake up till 8:30 and we'll easily be back by then... PETER Yeah, you're right, we won't be long. They rush into the elevator.
Michael?   Michael, are you here? No answer. Peter pushes the door open. The sight that greets his eyes is very dismaying. It looks like a tornado has hit the house. Everything's on the floor, it's all been smashed, it's all been ripped apart. Gone is the beauti- ful apartment that had been so lovingly decorated. In its place, utter devastation and shambles. Peter stands there speechless for a moment, then an awful thought crosses his mind. He runs like crazy into his room -- the basket's not there. Stepping over the debris and all the things strewn over the floor, he rushes into the living room, then into Michael's room. The basket's nowhere to be seen. Peter falls apart; without even realizing it, he's moan- ing and muttering distractedly. He runs into Jack's room, into the kitchen, into the bathroom. The basket is nowhere to be seen. Peter runs all over, back and forth ten times in all the rooms. Tears are flowing from his eyes. Suddenly, he hears FAINT CRIES.   They're coming from the back bathroom. Peter rushes to   it, practically ripping the door from its hinges. There   on the toilet is the basket, and on it there's a note  written in big messy printing which says: "NEXT TIME   WE TAKE HER." Mary looks at Peter and smiles; she seems in great shape. A distraught Peter picks her up, hugs her tightly and kisses her all over as he takes her into his room. Just then, Michael appears in the corridor, silent and
You'll have to excuse the mess... We had a few friends over last night... AGENT #1 (looking at the devastation) Oh, really? Well, if I were you I'd get myself some new friends! Peter comes in, in his bathrobe, furious. PETER What the hell are you guys looking for, anyway? AGENT #1 Probably the same things your friends were looking for last night! Didn't Mrs. Razzolini bring you a package last Sunday? PETER You mean the chocolate Easter bunnies? We ate them already. He starts to walk away. PETER Anyway, you have no idea how many packages we've been getting lately. It's hard to keep track of them. AGENT #1 Maybe we can help.  Let's get to work! All the cops enter the apartment.
Would you mind if I look in your
PETER  My pleasure. Try not to make a mess.
I'll look in the basket, if you don't mind... PETER Be my guest.
Thank you very much, sorry about this... He goes out.   Peter, undaunted, pats Mary's big behind.
Well, there's obviously been a mistake. As far as you're concerned this investigation is closed. We apologize again. MICHAEL  Oh, don't mention it! It was a pleasure having you here! I hope you'll find what you're looking for very soon! AGENT #1 (looking straight at him) So do we. Michael closes the door and races into the living room where he discovers Peter putting on his jacket. MICHAEL  Did you hear that? He said there'd been a mistake and they weren't going to bother us anymore.
Bullshit, it's a trick. MICHAEL You think so?    Really?
They just said that to put us off guard. They saw the condition this apartment's in. PETER They know the punks were here looking for the dope and that they probably didn't find it. So that means we've still got it. MICHAEL But he said the investigation was closed. PETER Okay, let's just see how closed it is. I'll go downstairs. You watch out the window and see if I'm being tailed.
 So?   Was I right? MICHAEL There's one guy for sure! A redhead, kind of young, disguised sort of like a college student. PETER I knew it. They're going to be watching us around the clock.
I have the feeling they'll come to us.
We'll have to be very careful.
Hi! Doin' a little shopping, huh? How's your place -- not too much damage, I hope. MICHAEL What do you guys want? PUNK We want the dope. Tomorrow. MICHAEL And we want to give it to you. But the cops are tailing us nonstop. Matter of fact, there's one right behind us now... PUNK That's your problem, man. Figure out a way to shake 'em. Either we safely get the dope tomorrow, or you, your friend and the kid'll get this. (he quickly stabs the grocery bags three times) We'll call you tonight. He runs off, disappearing into the darkness. From the slit-open grocery bag milk flows out onto the sidewalk. Michael is shaking all over. Standing about twenty yards away, Graton hasn't missed a thing.
... My snitch told me the gang hasn't gotten the dope back yet, but they will soon. They made contact with the two guys tonight ... No, no, they don't know I'm tailing them. These jerks are going to fall right into my hands...
 Make it quick, the punks may be trying to call... PETER So hurry home, Jack, this little doll can't wait to see you. 'Bye. He hangs up. PETER  That goddamn mother fuckin' jerk of an asshole! I swear when he comes through the door I'll kill him!  I'll... The PHONE interrupts.   Michael leaps up and answers it. MICHAEL Hello? Listen, tomorrow, Central Park at the fountain near the merry-go-round, five o'clock. Be there, but... They've hung up on the other end.   Michael hangs up and sits down, drained. MICHAEL ... That was it. PETER  All we can do now is hope our plan works. MICHAEL You think the cops have our phone bugged? PETER I don't think that's legal, is it?
 We got 'em, Chief. Five o'clock
JACK  Yoo-hoo, guys! I'm home! I've got presents for you... so where's that wonderful fantastic babe... He enters and sees the state the apartment is in. JACK ... What the hell happened here? He walks into the apartment, shocked and overwhelmed. JACK Peter!    Michael! Are you here? He goes into the    living room -- No one'sthere. Into Michael's room.     No one's there. He goes into his own room, where the    destruction is even moreshocking than elsewhere since    nothing has been touchedin there. JACK Oh, my God! My beautiful room! My beautiful, beautiful room!  Michael!... Peter -- where the hell are you, for Chrissakes? He runs like a madman into Peter's room and stops short on the threshold. Michael and Peter are each holding a handle of the basket as they rock it gently. JACK  What the hell is going on around here? What happened to this place? What happened to my room? Peter and Michael look him right in the eye, still rocking the basket. JACK And anyway, what the hell are you
I paid to have this place decorated, too, you know. I'm not going to let you get away with this. He leaves; a second later, he comes back. JACK It's too late to try and talk me out of it. I'm history. I'm gone. I'm outa here. He leaves.   A second later, he comes back. JACK I'm giving you one more chance to... PETER  Would it be asking too much of you to shut your big mouth for a few seconds? There is a child here who's trying to sleep. JACK And that's another thing! I will not have a baby in this house! Babies are not part of our agreement! PETER  Michael, please hold me back... or I'll kill him. Michael takes the basket handle from  Peter's hand, places the basket carefully on the bed, and  walks without a word towards Jack, who he takes by the arm  and steers into the living room. Peter softly shuts the   door behind them and follows.
All right, Jack. Why don't we start at the very beginning. The very day you left for your vacation... JACK Hey, will you please stop talking like Mr. Rogers? It's getting on my nerves. PETER (his fuse has blown, laughing hysterically) His nerves! Ha. Ha. Ha. His nerves! Michael, his nerves! You wanna talk about nerves! Then just shut up and listen. It so happens we don't want a kid here either, but when someone dumps one on us, we take goddamn care of it. MICHAEL Yeah, we take goddam care of it. PETER We haven't had a decent night's sleep in two weeks. Michael's probably going to lose a $15,000 contract... MICHAEL Peter couldn't leave. Jerry almost jumped out the window. It's lucky they even made it to the finals! JACK What? PETER First, we've got the    narcs on our ass, then there's the    drug gang threatening to carve    us up. Then bottles... bottles...    every three hours, bottles. MICHAEL And diapers. Have you ever tried to do diapers?
'La Paz, Bolivia...' He calls from ... 'I'm onto something hot.' He says. 'Did the package get there?' He says. You asshole!
And the day they wrecked the apartment, Peter came home and couldn't find Mary. I've never seen him in tears like that bef... PETER (cutting him off; embarrassed) Never mind about that. Look, Jack, you got us into this mess, and you're going to help us get out of it. JACK What are you guys talking about? What narcs? What gang? And who's that fucking baby? PETER For your information, the 'fucking' baby's name is Mary. And if I were you, I'd watch what I said about her... because she just so happens to be your daughter! JACK What?? MICHAEL And it just so happens, we've got a lot better things to do with our lives than wipe a baby's ass, even if she's yours! Peter and Michael exit, slamming the door.
It's ridiculous. I look ridiculous. PETER You look completely ridiculous -- so what?
Okay, he's coming out alone. I'll follow him. Someone else stay here to keep an eye on the other guys.
What's going on? GRATON Inspector Graton, Narcotics. Do you admit you gave these men this package? MICHAEL Sure. I gave it to them, just a moment ago. GRATON  Officer, will you please open this package in front of these witnesses? The cop opens the package: it's a box of chocolate Easter bunnies. Graton is mortified. He crushes all the bunnies -- there's absolutely nothing but chocolate inside them. MICHAEL Is it against the law to give a box of candy to my friends? Peter and Jack take off their glasses. GRATON Oh, it's you guys!
What's the problem? GRATON You guys must think you're pretty smart, don't ya?  Holy shit! The diaper! Graton starts running like crazy back to the fountain. He rummages like a sick dog all around the spot where Michael had been lying. Suddenly he dashes toward the trash can and dumps out its contents, throwing the garbage around like a lunatic.
The goddam diaper! What a jerk, what a goddam schmuck I am! Peter, Michael, Jack and the 10 plainclothes detectives watch Graton going bananas. MICHAEL  I think that guy needs a vacation. JACK He should try South America. PETER Yeah, I hear it's nice there this time of year.
Let's face it... Graton... You've got shit for brains. GRATON I'm sure the dope was in the diaper. Can I go on tailing them? CHIEF Forget it. I have solid information your three suspects never had anything to do with the dealers or the dope. GRATON I'm sure the dope was in the diaper. CHIEF
GRATON I'm sure the dope was in the diaper. CHIEF  Did you hear me, Graton?   Case closed. GRATON I'm sure the d... CUT TO: In the devastated living room Peter, still disguised as a punk, and Michael, both very high, are dancing around in circles with each other and laughing. They are singing a lullaby at the top of their lungs, and har- monizing. Peter is holding Mary close, and Michael, holding a near-empty bottle of liquor, staggers over to him and starts turning around in circles with him. MARY, snuggled up warmly between Peter and Michael, is LAUGHING her head off. In the b.g., in the hall, Jack, also still in his punk getup, is on the phone. He's got a glass in his hand and is a little smashed. JACK Paul, hi, it's Jack! Hey, listen, I brought you back a little present from South America. Can I see you right away so I can give it to you? ... Yeah, the sooner the better! I can't wait to let you have it. How about 67th and East River? A broadly smiling Jack arrives at the riverside. Paul is sitting on a bench. When he sees Jack, he gets up and comes to greet him, smiling and extending his hand. Without warning, Jack suddenly jumps him and  sends him with a forceful shove flying into the water.   Paul lands on his back with a big splash, and comes back  up to the surface totally dumbfounded. Jack leans over   the water and yells at him, like a madman, still a bit  drunk. JACK That was for your 'little' package, and consider yourself lucky I didn't turn you in to the cops! And get one thing into your thick skull: I have never touched dope,
Hey, come back! -- how'm I gonna get out of here? JACK Crawl.
Sylvia -- She wanted to know how Mary was doing. JACK What? Jesus Christ, Michael, why didn't you let me talk to her!? MICHAEL She would have just hung up on you again. The important thing is she knows Mary's fine. JACK You jerk! You should've said she was terrible, sick as hell! Practically on death's door!  What a jerk, what a pain in the ass you can be sometimes... MICHAEL  What's with him? The kid's doing really great!
Mom? Hi, how are you?... Yes, I'm fine. Yes, I'm eating well. Mom, how would you feel if I told you you were a grandma?... SCREAMING coming over the phone.
... Yeah... A little girl, Mary... SCREAMING coming over the phone. JACK ... I'd love you to see her. In fact, I was gonna bring her down tomorrow... today?... Great, I think there's a flight in three hours. I'll be at your place by two. See you real soon! He hangs up gleefully, rubbing his hands together.
You'll have four already made, this'll hold till Miami. JACK Okay... MICHAEL Tell her to make sure Mary gets plenty of sleep. JACK I'll tell her. MICHAEL If her ass gets red, tell her not to listen to any pediatricians -- they're full of shit. JACK Right.     Full of shit. MICHAEL Then she should give her a bottle of water instead of the regular bottle. Works like a charm: Her ass will be white as snow in three hours. JACK  Bottle of water, white as snow... MICHAEL Peter says her clothes should be washed by hand...
Really, by hand? MICHAEL  And only in soap flakes without any artificial color or scent. And then rinsed three times in very hot water. JACK  Rinse three times. MICHAEL To put her to sleep we sing in harmony -- it always works. JACK My mother lives alone. MICHAEL Solo works just as well. JACK Okay. MICHAEL Now, as for the nipples, you've got to be very, very, very careful. MICHAEL As soon as the hole gets too big she's gotta throw them out -- This is extra, extra, extra-specially important -- 'cause if the hole's too big, the milk comes out too fast and it's bad for her digest... JACK (politely, but a little in a hurry) I gotta get going, I'll miss my plane...
Anyone home? Michael is in the living room, eating a sandwich, while looking through a magazine.
I am! PETER How 'bout Jack?
On his way to Miami. PETER Oh, yeah. He's got a lot of nerve! Leaving us with the kid again... MICHAEL No, he took Mary to his mother's, she couldn't wait to see her. He's gonna try to unload her on her till Sylvia gets back. I made her four bott... PETER  You're kidding! That son-of-a- bitch! MICHAEL Don't worry, I told him everything he had to know, and I made her four bott... PETER Oh, I'm telling you, that guy is really starting to get on my nerves! MICHAEL Why? PETER Goddamn him! He really could have called me! MICHAEL Are you pissed off 'cause she's gone? PETER  Of course not! What, are you crazy? I'm relieved! Thank God she's out of here! MICHAEL I made her four bott... PETER
 Four bottles for the goddam trip. There, I finally got it out.
Hey, Mom! MARGIE  Hey, he finally made it! MARGIE  Do you have any idea what time it is? It's four. You said two. JACK But, Mom, I missed the plane. MARGIE Yeah, but now I have to go. JACK Where are you going? MARGIE On a cruise around the world. JACK But why didn't you say so on the phone? MARGIE Because you never would've come. Now let me see her. (she grabs Mary and covers her with kisses) Oh, my little strudle! STEVE
Bye-bye, sweetie love... I'll bring you back presents from all over the world. (to Jack, giving back Mary) Four o'clock. She runs into the car and they pull away.     Everyone waving goodbye. JACK  'Bye!
PETER You're bringing her back? JACK Yeah... she's starving. I gotta heat this bottle up right away. They go into the kitchen together. Peter immediately gets busy; he heats the bottle up quickly while Jack soothes the hungry Mary by carrying her in his arms. PETER So what happened? Did you two have a fight? JACK  Goddamn cruises... PETER Didn't she want to take her? JACK Sure she did, but she was just leaving for some stupid cruise around the world. The entire fucking world! With some bimbo boyfriend of her's... and a bunch of retired bozos. PETER
JACK What?
 What do you want? JACK Nothing, nothing. PETER Don't go into my room, she's asleep. JACK Yeah, but the nanny, Mrs. Bretsaws, she wants to see her.
No, damn it, no! You're gonna wake her up! It already took me an hour to sing her to sleep... JACK Yeah, but she wants to see her. PETER All right, I'll go explain the situation. JACK (holding him back with both hands) No, no, Peter, please, really, don't go, don't bother, I'll go explain it to her myself... PETER It's no bother, Jack.    I'll be glad to do it. He rushes toward the living room. JACK  Wanna bet she's out of here in ten minutes slamming the door behind her? They tiptoe over to the living room door and eavesdrop.
... A sleeping child should not be awakened. If you don't know that, then you're not fit to be a nanny.
 I never said that I wanted the child to be awakened, sir. I only asked to see her. If I'm going to be taking care of the child on a round-the-clock basis, then... PETER 'Round-the-clock'? Whaddya mean 'round the clock'? Are you intending to sleep here? MRS. BRETSAWS Absolutely, sir. A second mommy is a second mommy. PETER And where are you going to sleep? MRS. BRETSAWS Well, I expect you to show me to my quarters. PETER Well, I don't know where Jack intends to stick you... That's his problem... Maybe in his room... But I'm warning you, Mrs. Brestshow. MRS. BRETSAWS Bretsaws. PETER There are three of us sharing this place and we're all real studs.
... And as for screwing, I have all I need at home, thank you very much. With a few days off every month, I'm sure I'll be fine. The only thing I'm interested in is the care of the child and I can tell she needs some.
Oh, yeah?   How do you figure that? MRS. BRETSAWS Shouldn't I be discussing all this with the father? PETER Well, listen, Mrs. Fretsaw, umm... Brainsore... MRS. BRETSAWS Bretsaws, Mrs. Bretsaws. PETER Right... Bratsnot, lemme tell you something. With a child you always know who the mother is, but the father -- that's another kettle of fish. So don't give me that bullshit, okay? MRS. BRETSAWS Very well. I won't discuss it any further with you. Will you please show me where the kitchen and the bathroom are? PETER What for? MRS. BRETSAWS So I can make you a list of the things we need. PETER What do you mean, make you a list? -- Don't you do the shopping yourself? MRS. BRETSAWS No shopping or laundry or housekeeping. I am a professional nanny. PETER We have plenty of everything. MRS. BRETSAWS Do you have a sufficient amount of fruit and vegetables for the child? PETER She only eats milk and cereal.
That's not enough, sir. From the age of three months children should be started on a normal, varied diet.
Oh that's bullshit. You don't feed a baby like an adult. MRS. BRETSAWS  Oh, really? And how would you know? PETER I've read plenty of books. The diet recommended by those quack pediatricians today is way too rich. I'm in favor of natural methods, Mrs. Breathmint. MRS. BRETSAWS Bretsaws, Mrs. Bretsaws. PETER For instance, if a child is having trouble getting to sleep, what would you do? MRS. BRETSAWS Depends, if it was a continuing problem, I might recommend a mild sedative... PETER (exploding, triumphantly) I knew you'd say something like that, you jerk! MRS.    BRETSAWS Fine. Anything you     say, sir. Let me just remind    you that I have my diploma and that    medicine is a serious matter. PETER Do you know the song that goes 'Medicine's a whore and the pharmacist is her pimp'? MRS. BRETSAWS No, I don't. We must listen to different music. Personally I'm very fond of opera.
Mrs. Breakballs, if you don't get out of here right this minute I'm gonna punch you in the nose! This is my home, now get out!
The name's Bretsaws. I am blessed with infinite patience when it comes to children, sir, but I'm not qualified to deal with lunatics. Goodbye and good luck! Mrs. Bretsaws grabs her suitcase and exits, dignified and stiff as a broom, slamming the door behind her.
 What did I tell you? Ten minutes to the second!
Okay, listen, you guys... I've tried everything and nothing's working: my mother's off on a cruise; Mrs. Razzolini won't speak to us ever since the whole business with the cops -- we don't want to involve any of our girlfriends; Sylvia's taking it easy in Europe and there's no way she's gonna come back now that Michael went and told her everything's just fine and dandy. Peter did a terrific job getting rid of Mrs. Bretsaws, and all that's left are the daycare centers, but Peter's positive they're a breeding pit for A.I.D.S. So you tell me: What are we suppose to do? You want me to split with the kid? Or dump her in an orphanage? PETER (pretending to play the violin)
Well... I thought you might do it...
Not a    chance! I'm not doing the night    shift. I absolutely refuse. I have    too much work to catch up on for    the competition. JACK Well, needless to say I refuse, too!
Listen to me, you selfish bastards! My shift is eight hours in a row. No way I'm gonna do nights too. After 6 P.M. she can scream all she wants, I don't give a shit. PETER You know, Jack, you're a real slime ball! We give you the easiest shift: the morning. She's always in great shape in the morning, isn't she? We've got to work like crazy to save our jobs and you have the nerve to refuse nights. Goddamit, she's your daughter. Are you that horny? JACK (extremely pissed off) Hey, horny yourself! I don't give a shit. I don't need you guys. I'll find some other way to do it. And I won't take the New York-Washington shuttle! He exits, furious.
 Hi, Jack, something wrong?
 Oh, hi... Nah, nothing's wrong. PAUL What were you doing in the boss's office? JACK I was asking to do the New York- Washington shuttle for a few months. PAUL Oh, and he said 'no,' huh?
 As a matter of fact, he said 'yes.' Paul backs up against the wall, protecting his face with his arms. Jack leaves, disgusted. Paul watches him go, totally confused.
Okay, I'm off. She's well fed and she's sleeping now. We hear MARY CRYING. JACK Shit, she's crying.      I'll go pick her up... Peter passes him in the corridor.      He, too, is ready to go out to his office. PETER
No, she needs to burp -- I've gotta rock her for a little... PETER I'm telling you, the more you pick her up, the longer it'll take her to get to sleep. JACK Thanks for the advice -- now why don't you just shove it? I know you let her scream for hours but I can't. PETER (in a state of shock) I never let her scream for hours! JACK You'd resort to any theory to not take care of her. Just because you've read some books... PETER Can you believe what he just said to me... I read those books bec... JACK It's not your shift, anyway. Piss off, will ya? MICHAEL Come on, guys, cool it! It's my shift now.  I'll rock her for a few minutes...  ... and then I'll put her right to bed. So off to work, both of you. He pushes them both out.
Coochie, coochie, coo... woo, woo, woo... bippity, boppity boo... Peter comes rushing into the apartment and runs toward his room. He stops short in the corridor -- he hears Mary's laughter and Michael's coochie-coo's. Noiselessly he tiptoes over to the living room door and listens, troubled. Then he walks away and shouts, as though he were just coming out of his room. PETER Hi, Michael, I just came back to get a file I forgot...
PETER Everything okay? MICHAEL (without looking at him) Yeah, okay. Silence. PETER  Well, I guess I'll be going now. MICHAEL  Yeah... They're both uneasy. PETER The baby okay? MICHAEL (not budging an inch) Yeah, okay. Peter exits.
 Shit, she's crying... BRUNETTE What? JACK Nothing, nothing. I'll be right back. He gets up, slips on a bathrobe and goes out of the bedroom, carefully closing the door behind him. He goes into the living room, picks Mary up, and showers her with kisses. Mary stops crying immediately and lays her head on Jack's shoulder, sucking her thumb. Jack rocks her for a moment then puts her back to bed. Mary instantly starts crying again. Jack very quickly picks her up again and kisses her. Mary is delighted by his tenderness. Jack puts her back to bed again.
 She's crying. JACK  Yeah, every time I try to put her back to bed... MICHAEL  Maybe she's thirsty? PETER No, her back teeth must be starting to bother her... JACK What should I do? MICHAEL I've bought some stuff for her gums. He rubs some of the medication on Mary's gums. PETER Try and put her back to bed; we'll sing. Jack puts Mary back to bed. Michael, as a routine, sings a major chord, giving each of them their notes. They start singing a lullabye in three-part harmony, as they lean over the crib. Mary is in seventh heaven. She looks up at them, she stops crying, she sucks her thumb.
BRUNETTE This guy's totally whacko. She gets up, slips on a T-shirt, and exits the bedroom.
 Hey, choir boys, you gonna keep it up all night? Peter and Michael stare at her, scandalized. Jack gestures wildly to her to shut up and go away. BRUNETTE Oh my God! There's a baby in there! I'm sorry... She goes back to Jack's room.
 Who the hell's that broad? JACK Watch your mouth, will you? I'm in love with that young lady. PETER Can't she speak softly like everyone else? JACK  Listen, at night I'm in charge. So get off my back, will you? MICHAEL  Will you quit fighting all the time? She just fell asleep, for Chrissake. JACK Oh, Michael, go to hell! I'm sick and tired of your little 'Father Knows Best' number! PETER Yeah, you're right, I'm fed up with it, too! MICHAEL  Okay, that's it. Into the kitchen. He exits, furious. Peter and Jack follow after him. Fuming, they file one after the other down the corridor past the stunned Brunette in her T-shirt who was waiting
I've had it with you assholes! I won't be the buffer between you two anymore... JACK I didn't ask you to get up, I know what I have to do. PETER I don't mind getting up, that's not the point...
I'm not a punching bag!   You assholes! JACK If I can't bring a girl back here anymore, just say so. And I'm gone. I'm outta here. With Mary. PETER You can bring whoever you want as long as they speak softly like everyone else! MICHAEL One thing I know: I can't goddamn wait till Sylvia gets back! PETER Yeah, you can say that again! JACK And again, and again, and again... Meanwhile, the Brunette has put her clothes back on and gathered up her belongings. Now she enters the kitchen. BRUNETTE Sorry to disturb you guys, but I'm splitting. I didn't come here to be a bedwarmer. 'Bye. JACK  No! Wait, please don't go... it's all over now, I'm coming back to bed... BRUNETTE 
CARL Have you seen the latest bi-annual at the Whitney? Incredible! Have you seen it, Peter? PETER No, I haven't had the time lately. CARL Ah... working hard on the competition, are you? You may as well throw in the T-square, old friend, you haven't got a chance. JERRY  I only wish he was working hard on the competition, but unfortunately, that's not the case... NATALIE Really? What's he doing then? He's always so busy. CARL Maybe he's working hard on women! Some people have to work really hard to get anything! Natalie bursts out laughing. Peter's about to respond, but stops himself suddenly. In the b.g., a BABY can be
Peter, Jack, and Michael exchange glances.    Jack rushes out. The guests haven't heard anything. PETER (whispering to Natalie) Why do you always have to bring Carl along with you? NATALIE Don't you like him? PETER Oh, c'mon -- I love him! Only, I'd like to see you alone for once, that's all. NATALIE He's  extremely talented -- in fact,  I hate to tell you this, but I  think he and his group are gonna  win the competition. PETER Well, we'll see about that. Jack returns to the table.   Peter's eyes follow him nervously. MICHAEL (in a low tone, to Jack) Did you give her something to drink? CHRISTIE  Oh, cut it out! No more for me! I've had eight glasses! JACK (in a low tone, to Michael) I tried, but she doesn't want anything -- CHRISTIE I do so want some, but if I have anymore I'll pass out! PETER Save room for dessert -- it's a three-tiered cake from Balducci's! EVERYONE
CHRISTIE  I love three-tiered cakes!
So what's it made of? In the b.g., the BABY starts CRYING again. PETER Umm, it's made with whipped cream and loads of nipples on top -- I mean, loads of... raspberries ... I'll be right back...
Are you saying that's not art? Are you really saying that's not art? Well, then, you explain what it is. MICHAEL Well, it's... art. I'll be right back. He gets up and goes out.    Jack watches him. CAROLINE Jack, tell me about those exotic places, what is Caracas like? JACK  Well, actually... uh, lately I've been to Washington a lot... and uh... I'll be right back. He gets up and goes out.
Try and put her back to bed... JACK I'm warning you, she'll scream... PETER I'm sure she's cutting a tooth...
Yoo-hoo! What are you guys doing in there? It's fucking boring without you... MICHAEL Oh shit -- the guests... PETER You two go... I'm staying with her. It can't be worse than listening to Carl.
That's not fair -- let's take Mary out there... MICHAEL And the hell with it.
GUESTS Oh, it's a baby! GUESTS Where the hell did that come from? Wow! Is it a boy or a girl? Who does it belong to? So you've got a kid now? Incredible! Does that come from Balducci's? No kidding, whose baby is that? JACK Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to meet my daughter, Mary. PETER  Your daughter... your daughter... GUESTS You're kidding! Congratulations! She's adorable! She looks just like you... Oh, what a cute little girl! Overwhelmed by all the people, MARY bursts out CRYING.
 Don't cry, Mary, don't cry... PETER There's too much noise. He shuts the MUSIC OFF.   MARY keeps on SCREAMING. PETER  She's teething, that's why she's cranky.  Give her to me, I'll try and calm her down. Peter takes MARY on his lap.    The SCREAMING CONTINUES. MICHAEL  Don't sit down -- it'll get worse. You have to walk around. Peter gets up and walks around.      Jack and Michael, standing, watch him walk. MARY SCREAMS even LOUDER as Peter walks back and forth in the room with her. The guests watch in uncomfortable silence. NATALIE How long have you had this kid? JACK A few months... NATALIE  Who's her mother, anyway? PETER She's in Europe, she'll be back in a few days. CARL Does she always cry like that? MICHAEL No, it's only because she's teething, she's usually very sweet... The guests remain silent. CAROLINE
What if you just put her back to bed? NATALIE Right -- she's just throwing a temper tantrum, put her to bed... PETER We already tried...
It's her teeth... NATALIE  Do you have any kids? JERRY'S WIFE Yeah, but they're grown up now, thank God! CHRISTIE  And do you have kids, too? JAY What? CHRISTIE I said... and do you have kids, too? JAY No, we both have careers. The guests remain silent, MARY CONTINUES to CRY. CARL So, do you think we'll get to taste that three-tiered cake tonight? PETER What? CARL (to Natalie, sarcastically) Oh, nothing, nothing -- I was just trying to liven up the
PETER What? CHRISTIE Gosh, my ears are ringing, I can't hear anybody. CAROLINE I must say, a crying kid is kind of hard to take... PETER What?
 We were just saying that this baby's conversation is actually rather limited... and a touch annoying. Don't you think? PETER Well, she's not the only one with a limited conversation. At least she has an excuse, she's a baby! What's yours? CARL I frankly don't know what you mean. PETER I mean, I've been listening to your pompous drivel about the latest trends for the last two hours, and frankly, it's a crock of horseshit. JERRY Come on, Peter, be nice... JAY Listen, go put the baby to bed and you guys cool it, will you? CARL It's okay. I'm used to it. Peter's always been a sore loser. PETER (totally out of control) You motherfucker, get out of here! Get out of my house right now or I'll kick the shit out
JERRY Peter, cut it out!
Stop it, Peter. Give her to me, I'll put her to bed... PETER  No, I'll go. (to all the guests) And you can all go fuck yourselves! Go back to your asinine conversations! He exits with Mary.    Jack, embarrassed, follows him. MICHAEL  Well... umm... How 'bout if I get the cake now, okay? He exits. CARL Well. It seems our beloved hosts are going to be busy playing mother for a while, so if you'll excuse me, I'll just slip away...  ... Natalie, may I invite you to spend the rest of the evening in a more hospitable place? NATALIE Gladly.  Goodbye. They exit. JAY (to Jerry and his wife) Is he out of his mind or what? JERRY He was absolutely obnoxious. CHRISTIE (drunk, getting up and tottering) Hey, Caroline, I think we should
 'Bye... Say goodbye to them for me... Sophia, Jay and his Wife exit. JERRY'S WIFE Well, we might as well go, too. I think the evening's over. She gets up, so does Jerry.
Well, the atmosphere wasn't exactly festive... JERRY Sorry about the cake, Mike... It looks great! MICHAEL Oh, never mind, don't worry... Good night... Jerry and his Wife exit. Michael is left standing there with his cake. Jack comes in, full of beans. JACK Well, she's asleep at last! We sang in har... Hey, where is everybody? MICHAEL Gone. Can you make a little room for me on the table to put the... JACK You mean they're all gone? MICHAEL Yeah, all of 'em, hey, can you make a little room for me to... JACK (going back out, furious) Peter! Peter, goddamit, get out here! Peter comes back in with Jack. JACK They're all gone!
Who gives a shit, they're all jerks anyway. MICHAEL Hey, could you make a little room for me on the table so I can... JACK It's because of the kid.     They can't stand kids. PETER I can't stand kids either but that's not a reason to leave! Dipshits, they're all a bunch of dipshits, every one of 'em. MICHAEL Oh, fuck it -- I'm sitting down. He sits down on a chair with the cake on his lap. JACK And did    you hear Natalie: 'She's throwing    a temper tantrum, just put her    to bed.' What a pain-in- the-ass    that broad is! PETER  Hey, you're the pain-in-the-ass! First you dump a baby on us, then you scare everyone away from the party, then... JACK I scared    everyone aw... Just cut the    crap, will you? My whole life is    diapers, shuttles and bottles.     I do the graveyard shift, I'm the    one who never gets any sleep.     I... PETER Listen, we all have two full-time jobs! That's for sure! MICHAEL And what about me? I'm a prisoner in this house all day long, forget about chasing ass, I haven't gotten laid in six months. When the hell is your friggin' Sylvia gonna come back?
She's been gone for six months and four days. PETER If she's not back by the end of next week, I'm kicking her kid out! MICHAEL You better give your goddam Sylvia hell for this! JACK Don't worry, she's gonna get it but good! PETER And you can tell her we have a lot better things to do with our lives than wipe a baby's ass, goddamn it! He exits. So does Jack. Michael is buried under the three-tiered cake, unable to see around it. MICHAEL Do you guys want some cake?  Guys?
The DOORBELL RINGS. Peter opens it: standing there before him is a very, very, young, gorgeous girl. SYLVIA  Hello... I'm Sylvia, Mary's mother. I've come to get her... PETER  Oh, it's you... Wait, I'll go
He stands there, frozen. SYLVIA How's Mary doing?
 Fine, fine, she's doing great... She's getting her back teeth in lately, it's been a bit rough... SYLVIA Can I see her?
Oh, yeah, sure, she's in there... They both enter the living room. Mary stares at Sylvia. When she spots Mary, Sylvia suddenly breaks down in tears. Peter is dumbfounded. SYLVIA I don't believe how much she's grown! Recovering, wiping away her tears, she walks over to the playpen. SYLVIA Hello, Mary, hello my darling... She picks her up, hugs her tightly, showers kisses on her. MARY LAUGHS. Sylvia starts crying again. SYLVIA How beautiful she is... Her hair has grown... Look how much she changed, I missed it all. I missed her so much! Peter, in a kind of daze, stares at Sylvia. Without looking at Peter, she dries her eyes and tries to stop crying. SYLVIA I wanted to make life difficult for Jack but I never thought I'd miss her so much... PETER  Oh, yeah... make life difficult for Jack...
Is he here? PETER What?
Is Jack here? PETER  Oh, yeah, yeah, I'll go get him... He exits like a sleepwalker and goes straight into Michael's room. The latter is asleep.
PETER Michael, Michael... Sylvia's here. Michael wakes up and looks at Peter. PETER Mary's leaving.
In the doorway Sylvia, with reddened eyes, silently watches them. JACK  Let's see, the five bottles, the little bottles for water, the strainer for her cereal...  ... Do you have a blender? SYLVIA A blender? JACK For bananas and carrots and stuff. It's time for her to start eating them... SYLVIA No, I don't have a blender. JACK
 Do you want me to take her? PETER No, I have to burp her first. With dexterity, he places Mary face down on his shoulder and walks around in the kitchen, patting her on the back.
 Here, could you give these to Michael so he can pack them with the clothes? He hands two bibs to Sylvia. Sylvia walks through the apartment, and stops in front of Michael's room, where she looks strangely at the changing table with its mattress, its pretty sheet, and the baby's toilet articles. Sylvia enters the living room. Michael has spread all of Mary's clothes, neatly folded and ironed on the couch. He is packing them in a big bag. SYLVIA Here are the bibs. Jack told me to give them... MICHAEL  Thanks... I put the woolen things on the bottom and the diapers and lighter things on top, because you'll need those first... SYLVIA (her mind is elsewhere) Yeah, sure... Michael bustles about. Sylvia's gaze comes to rest on the crib which stands imposingly in the middle of the living room. Music boxes, little booties and stuffed animals are hanging from the bars, and a pretty white tulle frames the crib.
You'll have to come back and get the crib later. SYLVIA Yeah...
Yeah, I bet... Actually, that was kind of the point... But I'm the one who really got screwed... She starts to cry again.
Don't cry, c'mon... you're taking her back now, it's great... SYLVIA  Yeah, it's great... JACK D'you have enough money?     Can you manage all right? SYLVIA Yeah, sure... I'm not loaded, but it's okay -- I'm working, I've got modeling jobs lined up... JACK Do you have a boyfriend? SYLVIA No. That's the last thing I need. I've got my work. And now I've got her. She rubs noses with Mary. Peter and Michael approach. PETER That's it, we fit it all in... JACK Okay, then... well, 'bye... The three men are lined up on the sidewalk. Mary stares at them, looking a little lost. They wave their hands and: PETER, MICHAEL AND JACK 'Bye, Mary! MARY LAUGHS and waves. SYLVIA (with a big, sad smile) Okay, well, thanks again -- 'Bye! PETER, MICHAEL AND JACK
The CAR STARTS up, pulls away, and disappears FROM VIEW. JACK  Well, that's that! MICHAEL Yeah... PETER Right... That's that. They head back to their apartment building.
Oh shit -- I forgot to explain about the cereal! JACK She'll figure it out by herself... MICHAEL Yeah, she'll manage... JACK Now it's back to the good life for us! MICHAEL Sleeping late! Different women every night! I can't wait! JACK Forget about the New York-Washington shuttle! I'm off to Caracas! PETER And I'm gonna be able to get back to work, so Carl better watch it -- I'm gonna slaughter that son-of-a-bitch! First with this goddam competition... and then with Natalie. MICHAEL And I've got six months' worth of sex to catch up on with Cathy, Nora, Frances, Susan, Barbra... They have entered the elevator. The doors close. They come out of the elevator, in front of their apartment. MICHAEL ...Christie, Paula, Sheila, Lisa, Kimberly, Rhonda, Rebecca, Louisa...
Oh, she forgot her squeaky giraffe. He picks it up and throws it onto an armchair.
These are for you... I'm not supposed to leave the office. PETER They think I'm in the bathroom. So I can't stay. 'Bye. He dashes back out.   Natalie cracks up, laughing.
Peter? Yeah? What? Yow-ee! Hooray! Terrific! That's fantastic! I'll call Jack -- We're gonna celebrate tonight! He hangs up.   The Blonde is now awake.
They won!    They won! BLONDE Who won? MICHAEL Peter.     He won the competition! BLONDE Great!     Who's Peter?
Jack comes running in with a bottle of champagne, he POPS the CORK. Jack hugs Peter tightly as Michael comes in with glasses and tries to catch the champagne that's flowing all over. They all shout and go bananas celebrating.
Sophia is absorbed in her monologue. Suddenly Michael realizes what he has drawn. He crumples the napkin and throws it in the wastebasket. Sophia hasn't noticed anything. Michael is bored stiff.
 Oh, my feet are killing me! She takes off her shoes and collapses in the armchair in the hall. There is a LOUD SQUEAKING noise. She reaches underneath her and brings out a rubber giraffe. NATALIE What the hell is this? Oh, it's a giraffe... (tosses it away and walks off) ... Oh, by the way, have you
CO-PILOT Hey, what's the matter with you? JACK Whadda you mean, what's the matter with me? CO-PILOT Are you sick? JACK Me?   No.   I'm fine. CO-PILOT C'mon, Jack! Didn't you see who we've got on board today? JACK Sure I did, why? CO-PILOT Well... look... JACK (turning around to look) So it's the Rockettes, so what? CO-PILOT And you're just sitting there like that? JACK Whaddaya mean, sitting there? I happen to be getting ready to fly this airplane. CO-PILOT Okay, forget it.
Hi... JACK  Hi? GRATON Don't you recognize me? JACK  Wait... uh, no... GRATON I'm the one who was tailing you... Remember, in the park... JACK Oh, yeah, the park... the diaper and all... GRATON That's it, the diaper... But don't worry. This isn't an investigation, I left the force four months ago, and anyway, they've arrested the whole gang since then... I just wanted to ask you something... JACK Have you noticed? I'm pregnant. GRATON  Oh yeah, I see... JACK So, shall we go for a walk?
There's something I have to know... JACK Wouldn't you like to be pregnant? GRATON What? Oh sure... maybe... no... I dunno... Look, there's been something bothering me for a long time. JACK You see, if I was God, and I could create the world all over again, here's what I would do: I would create Adam from Eve's rib, not the other way around. GRATON (having trouble following) Really? GRATON That's an interesting idea... Actually, I just wanted to ask you... JACK At least that way things would have been clearer to begin with, y'see. They wouldn't have made us believe that somebody could come out of our rib, y'know? 'Cause nothing ever comes out of our rib, y'know? Ever. Only out of our prick, and even then ... Everything still has to be done after that. GRATON  That's for sure... JACK What we men know how to make is planes, buildings, cars, and all that stuff... It's useful, mind
GRATON It's driving me crazy! This thing keeps going around and around in my head...
And you know what, it's not even like they wanted us to believe it -- it might have been us who wanted to believe it... But let's face it, nobody comes out of our rib... GRATON  Was the dope in the diaper, yes or no? JACK Still, that's hard to take, goddam it! GRATON Was it in the diaper, or not? JACK The dope?   It was in the diaper, why? GRATON  Oh, thanks a lot. I feel so much better now. Here, this is a rabbit for your baby. (shakes both Jack's hands) Thanks again, 'bye, I'm so happy. Graton goes off, floating on cloud nine. JACK (reaching out toward him with the rabbit) But wait -- the baby's gone...
JACK (extremely, in fact, too playful) Tomorrow, San Francisco!
 Say hello to the Pacific for me. JACK  I'll be back the day after tomorrow. PETER (emerging from the bowl, congested) You'll be id a foul bood -- jet lag really wipes out you dow. JACK  Whaddya mean, now? PETER Yeah: you didd't used to give a shit before, but dow it docks you out. JACK  Before what? PETER (putting his head back over the bowl) How would I dow? 'Before,' that's all. JACK  It doesn't knock me out at all... MICHAEL Is there any jam left? PETER Do. Silence. PETER You eatig here todight? JACK
Hi.   Is Sylvia in? YOUNG MAN No, she'll be back in a couple of hours -- around midnight, she said... JACK  Oh. YOUNG MAN Wanna come in and wait for her? JACK Sure... Why not?
Sylvia doing okay? YOUNG MAN I don't know -- I'm a med student. I'm just babysitting. I only met her a couple hours ago. JACK Oh, I see... Silence. The Young Man sits down at the table and immerses himself in his books. Mary doesn't look up from her pack of cigarettes anymore. JACK Listen, on second thought, I don't think I'll wait for her. Just give her this when she gets back, okay? And this is for the baby. Jack hands the bouquet and the rabbit to the Young Man, who plops them down on a chair. YOUNG MAN Sure, no problem. He immerses himself again in his books. Jack heads toward the door, then turns around. JACK Shouldn't the baby be in bed by now? YOUNG MAN Yeah... I don't know... When I put her to bed she cries so I just let her stay up... JACK Don't you have any tights to put on her legs? YOUNG MAN Tights?... Well, it's pretty hot in here anyway...
You want me to call them? JACK No. MICHAEL But you've got to let them know!
No, I'm not going anywhere anymore, I've had it with traveling. I quit. MICHAEL C'mon, I'll call you a cab, you've still got time. JACK Don't you call anybody. MICHAEL But the plane's s'posed to take off in half an hour -- They won't have time to replace you. This is serious -- you'll lose your job and you won't be able to pay your share of the apartment anymore... you... Jack takes off his pilot's jacket and throws it aside. JACK I'll be a dishwasher, I'll live in a flophouse. MICHAEL What the hell happened? JACK I'm not going, I told you; I'm not going ever again. I'm sick and tired of traveling, sick and tired of broads. They all have the same asses and I can't seem to love them anyway. I can't take another hotel room, and swimming pools and trendy restaurants! I want to know
Michael has no answer to these questions.     He leaves.
Come on, I made us a good dinner. I bought some filet mignon and Haagen-Dazs butter pecan. When Peter comes back he'll cheer you up... JACK He's been here all day. MICHAEL He has?    I didn't hear him... JACK He's in his room. MICHAEL What? Michael heads towards Peter's room.    Jack feebly gets up and follows him. Michael knocks on the door.     No answer. MICHAEL Peter!    Dinner's ready! Still no answer. Michael opens the door:      Peter's lying face-down on his bed. He's holding the rubber giraffe and sobbing. Michael and Jack, dismayed, stare at him. Peter hides his face in his arm. Jack and Michael go to the kitchen and sit down to their steaks, totally depressed.
Is Jack here? 'Cause I'm a mess. I can't handle it, I'm all alone...
 Jack!   Jack, c'mere for Chrissake! SYLVIA 'Cause my place is tiny, y'know, and my schedule's insane -- and I just finished four days of posing and we ended up every day at...
 Yeah, y'see, Jack, I just did four days of posing... JACK Yeah... SYLVIA And every day we finished at three in the morning and since Mary always gets up around 5:30... JACK Yeah... SYLVIA Well, you can imagine how much sleep I've gotten... JACK Yeah, of course, 'cause after the 5:30 bottle it starts all over again around nine... SYLVIA And by the time I change her and play with her a little, it's already eight o'clock... JACK And then that's it -- you get only an hour of sleep. SYLVIA And the babysitters till three A.M. -- all my money is sucked
Oh, so the flowers and the rabbit were from you... JACK I could have strangled that guy... SYLVIA I mean it, I can't cope anymore. My parents and I don't talk to each other and anyway they live in Texas, and the baby needs to get out to the park... MICHAEL Yeah, tell me about it! Finding time to take her to the park every day is a real bitch! SYLVIA And I have to work, I need the money to survive and anyway I love my job... A distraught Peter, bare-chested and in jeans, comes running in from his room. SYLVIA But to work I've gotta have a babysitter, and to have a babysitter I need to work, so I run around all day...  ... and I'm not sure I'm taking good care of her... PETER Of course you're taking good care of her -- we know what it's like, don't cry, she looks great... SYLVIA  It's just 'cause I haven't slept in four nights -- she must be teething or something, I don't know but I can't manage... PETER Don't worry, it's nothing, she's
She pulled the same thing on us. We lost all our friends in one night -- on account of one tooth! SYLVIA And just look    at my face! Nobody's going    to want me to model for them    with the way my face looks...    And what'll happen to me if they    don't want me anymore?
But you're beautiful -- At your age all you need is a good night's sleep and you'll look like new. SYLVIA Right, a good night's sleep -- but when? PETER Well, why don't you leave the baby with us for a few days, till you recuperate... I mean, if you want. MICHAEL We're old pros -- it's not a big deal for us... SYLVIA (blowing her nose, wiping her eyes) Really? I can leave her with you for a little while? JACK Of course. Leave her with us. Come back whenever you want. Get some rest. Sylvia, between two sobs, picks up a big bag beside her on the doorstep. SYLVIA I brought a couple of things for her, just for a few days... Michael eagerly takes the bag from her.    It's followed by a second, and then a third. PETER
in his arms) Is she hungry? SYLVIA Yeah, it's time for her bottle -- it's all ready in the bag... JACK I'll go heat up some water right away. Would you like a cup of coffee? SYLVIA Oh, okay, thanks...
In the kitchen the three men bustle about with the bags, the bottle, the saucepan... They've swallowed all their pride and are kissing Mary all over, on her neck, her hands, her tummy. They're deliriously happy. Michael takes some sheets out of the bag. MICHAEL I'll go make up her bed! He exits, and, once in the corridor, prances around, leaping and dancing... He gets to the living room and goes over to the crib: suddenly, he recoils and freezes, a fearful expression on his face. Then he turns and races back to the kitchen. MICHAEL  Hey, you guys -- come and see, come and see! PETER What? MICHAEL Come see, I said. Jack and Peter nervously follow Michael into the living room. They stop short in front of the crib: There is Sylvia, curled up in a fetal position, sucking her thumb and sleeping like an angel. MICHAEL The poor thing, she's really wiped out.
She'll need two or three months to recover, at least... Maybe more! PETER We could set up a room for her here... MICHAEL A room for her and a room for Mary... JACK Then we could have four shifts instead of three!
Yeah, but I don't think she'll agree. She's got her own life to live. MICHAEL Yeah, she probably wouldn't want to move here. She'd think we'd jump on her any chance we could... JACK But we'd make a rule, she'd just be 'one of the guys!' MICHAEL She'll never want to... SYLVIA  So, I'll take the ten A.M. to three P.M. shift... And I'll take every other night... plus the walk in the park in the afternoon before I go to work... and we split the rent equally... and I'll just be 'one of the guys'... deal? PETER, MICHAEL, AND JACK  Deal. Mary    suddenly comes in from the kitchen, walking unstead- ily    but determinedly. She's dragging Graton's rabbit by its    ear. She looks at the four of them and laughs her head    off. FREEZE FRAME.
