Had enough? GIRARD (breathless deadpan) I believe now would be a good time to end your, uhm, formal training. Well done.
And god have mercy on whomever you meet next.
Mother...?
Did you see us? You heard us, I'll bet. Girard finally surrendered a compliment... though I almost had to kill him to get it... Mother...? D'Artagnan comes upon an open door, a small room beyond. He pauses, then steps inside.
Didn't you hear me? Girard --
Sit. D'Artagnan sighs, sits in a large wooden chair. A beat. His mother speaks quietly, eyes turned back to the open chest. MOTHER Your father was a proud man. And he had a right to be. I never knew one as brave or as kind. He knew that his strength was a gift to be given in the service of honor. That is why he dedicated his life to his country and his King. That is why he gave his life, for both.
MOTHER I watched you this morning and saw someone I knew. You have your father's heart, his will to fight, his courage. But these gifts have no value unless they are given. She rises, holds the sword out to him.
It's time for you find your fortune with men as brave and as bold as you are. In Paris. With the King's Musketeers.  You'll need this.
 Father's sword. 
Yes, son.   And now to you. With that, she holds out the beautiful saber.         D'Artagnan takes it firmly into his hands.
I'm not your mother now. I'm speaking for your father. And this is what he would have told you. Never forget the code of the d'Artagnans. It is your special heritage.  Always seek out adventure...
I will. MOTHER Never run from a fight... D'ARTAGNAN I won't.
Never submit to insults.    Except from the King.
Never. 
You've heard that every man in the Musketeers is on the run from someone or something? D'ARTAGNAN Yes.   But what am I running from?
 A shrew of a mother, and a drafty old house. Now go.
And for heaven's sake, practice your horsemanship. D'ARTAGNAN Horsemanship.    Got it. D'Artagnan digs his heels into the horse's flanks, shoots off across bright green fields. His Mother shields her eyes from the sun, feels a gathering of tears, and watches him ride into the distance.
What should I do with this?
Throw it on the fire with everything else. JUSSAC But this is the emblem of the Musketeers... ROCHEFORT The Musketeers no longer exist. Or haven't you heard?  Throw it on the fire. Jussac hastily adds the emblem to the fiery blaze, it is instantly consumed. Rochefort watches it burn, then walks to a balcony overlooking a vast courtyard.
Musketeers... A hundred faces turn   upward to regard him. And on each the same expression   -- absolute loathing for the man in black. Rochefort is    not intimidated by this sea of con- tempt. He revels in    it. ROCHEFORT By joint edict of His Majesty King Louis XIII and His Eminence Cardinal Richelieu, the Musketeers are officially disbanded. In preparation for the coming war with England, your ranks and commissions are hereby transferred to the Infantry. You will be contacted and told where to report. Until that time, you are instructed to return to your homes. DE TREVILLE (shouting to Rochefort) And who will protect the King? ROCHEFORT The Cardinal's Guards are more than capable of assuming that... responsibility.
You are hereby ordered to disperse. Should even one of you resist... the entire corps will be arrested and imprisoned. (with pleasure and disdain) 'All for one, and one for all.'
Go to your homes. Wait. Our day will come again.
 All but... three.
Three?
Release that man!! Happy to comply, Porthos lets go of the Guard who plunges to the street with a dull thud. Then, with a wink and a piratical grin, Porthos ducks inside. Jussac darkens, signals his men, and they rush toward the tavern.
 What is this?
A private party. Go away. ARAMIS Athos -- is that any way to greet our guests?
Your presence is requested at Musketeer Headquarters by Captain Rochefort. Athos and Aramis exchange looks.
The Cyclops is a Captain? He must've made a pact with the Devil.
Or the Cardinal. ATHOS What's the difference?
You're instructed to come with me and surrender your tunics.
These gentlemen made a similar request. JUSSAC Are you refusing to come peaceably? ATHOS Probably. But I'll leave it up to my companions. Aramis? ARAMIS We can't refuse Rochefort's invitation. It would be impolite. Athos tips back in his chair and gazes upward.
And what do you say, Porthos?
I'll be right down! With the grace of an aerialist, Porthos jumps from the balcony and lands atop the chandelier. His weight causes the chains suspending it to break. With a whoop of pleasure, Porthos rides the chandelier down as it lands squarely atop Jussac's Guards, squashing them.
Now.   About those tunics... Jussac turns to watch Athos, Porthos, and Aramis step to the street. He mutters as if to curse: JUSSAC Musketeers. CUT TO:
I've saved you and your friend from these bandits.
These 'bandits' are the Queen's own bodyguards.
If I were you, I'd make myself scarce. These men are going to be very angry when they wake up. 
Do you have a name?
D'Artagnan.
You're a very foolish boy, d'Artagnan... but a very handsome one. Good-bye. Constance spurs her horse and rides off to catch up with Anne. D'ARTAGNAN  Wait!   You didn't tell me your name! But Constance is gone. D'Artagnan stands in the middle of the road, feeling foolish and oddly thrilled at the same time. The two bodyguards groan and grumble.
The man who attacked you... (pointing in the opposite direction) ... went that way. With a guilty smile, d'Artagnan spurs his horse and rides like Hell.
CUT TO:
I'll take those tunics, Musketeers. PORTHOS  What did he say? ARAMIS He said he'll take those tunics. PORTHOS Tunics?   Coming right up. Porthos reaches inside his cloak and takes out a crumpled red tunic he took from one of the Cardinal's guards. He drops it on the ground, digs into a pocket and takes out another. He finds another in his boot and another up his sleeve. There's one in his hat. Like a magician, he keeps pulling red tunics out of the most bizarre places.
I was trying to remember the last time I saw you here. I know. It was the day you were kicked out of the Musketeers.
Conduct Unbecoming a Musketeer. Wasn't that the charge?
You ought to know. Three witnesses stood against me.
You are hereby ordered to surrender your commissions and make yourselves available for reassignment in the King's Army.
And if we refuse? ROCHEFORT You will become outlaws.   Hunted men. PORTHOS It doesn't matter where I go or what I do. Sooner or later somebody's calling me 'outlaw.' Athos cuts him off with a look. He's familiar with Porthos' propensity for tall tales. But not here, not now. Athos turns back to the balcony. Rochefort lobs a taunt. ROCHEFORT Are you refusing to serve your King? ARAMIS We are refusing to serve the Cardinal. PORTHOS Same thing, these days. ARAMIS France has one King too many.
I'll tell him you said that.
Do that, Rochefort. Tell his Emminence the Cardinal that we will continue to perform our sworn duty to protect the King. From enemies across the sea. 
I'll make sure His Emminence the Cardinal gets the message. But I can't promise he'll be pleased.
Well, if we're going to be outlaws, I suppose we'll have to get our affairs in order.
Are you going to visit them alphabetically or in order of preference?
Alphabetically seems... fair. ARAMIS When it comes to you and women, fairness rarely applies. ATHOS  We'll meet at the Columbier-Rouge at sundown.  To celebrate. And to plan our new lives. PORTHOS Outlaws.
Citizens of France.
The three Musketeers. And that is all that remains.
 Where are they? Where are the Musketeers? I'm in the right place, aren't I?
 Not as far as I'm concerned.
But this is Musketeer Headquarters... 
I mean the Musketeers have been disbanded. Feel free to poke around for souvenirs.
What do you mean 'disbanded'?
Some nonsense about being needed in the army. Now if you'll excuse me... D'Artagnan blocks Athos' path. D'ARTAGNAN But I just got here. How can I become a Musketeer if they've been disbanded? ATHOS I'd say you've got a problem. D'Artagnan grabs Athos by his injured arm. Athos, stif- ling pain, fixes d'Artagnan with a deadly look. ATHOS You could use a lesson in manners. D'Artagnan touches his sword, eyes flashing at the pos- sibility of a duel. D'ARTAGNAN Any time.
I'm in a hurry now -- but I'll meet you at the Carmes-Deshaux monastery at noon.
D'ARTAGNAN  I'll be there ten minutes early.  
PORTHOS But, Catherine, don't you see? As an outlaw I'll be constantly on the run from the Cardinal's guards, a refugee. Think of all the places you can hide me. I'm thinking of them now.
No. PORTHOS It is a gift from the Queen of America. Porthos' righteous indignation is more impressive than his knowledge of current affairs. D'Artagnan corrects. D'ARTAGNAN There is no Queen of America.
 Madame Augustine, would you excuse me for a moment, I'm going to kill him. (back to d'Artagnan; ever the gentleman) Now, where were we? D'ARTAGNAN (glancing at the ladies; the alley) I rode through a puddle, muddied your sash, the Queen of America except there isn't one, I'm in a hurry, and you were about to challenge me to a duel.
 I was?
That seems to be the local custom. Porthos lets out a weary sigh.         He shakes his head.
The great who? PORTHOS The great Porthos. (when d'Artagnan isn't impressed) Me, you idiot.
Don't you know who I am? D'ARTAGNAN The world's greatest talker?
PORTHOS All right, you little puke! You want to die? So be it! One o'clock behind the Luxembourg! And bring a coffin! D'ARTAGNAN Bring your own!
Let me pass. 
I must speak to those young women.
The young women do not wish to be spoken to. D'ARTAGNAN I have something that belongs to the Queen. GUARD  What? D'ARTAGNAN A bracelet. GUARD I'll deliver it for you.
No, you've been enough help already. Would you be so kind as to point out the Carmes-Deshaux Monastery? The Guard points to a large building in the distance with a large cross. CUT TO:
Madam, I'm flattered but I thought you wanted me to tutor you in theology.
There's nothing unholy about expressing one's emotions. On the contrary. Religion should be experienced in a passionate, all- embracing way. We should feel free to express our spirituality.
Yes, darling! The Damsel attacks him again.         Suddenly, a pounding on the door. MAN Open up!
 My husband! ARAMIS Your husband!? DAMSEL Aramis -- run!
First we must pray to God for forgiveness.
On second thought, God's often busy. Aramis leaps to his feet and sprints for the open window.
Thanks. You broke my fall perfectly. But I do apologize for the inconvenience... D'ARTAGNAN  Get off me! D'Artagnan pushes Aramis aside. Aramis grabs d'Artagnan by the scruff of his neck and pulls him back.
If there's one thing I can't abide, it's rudeness. D'ARTAGNAN You fell on me! ARAMIS And I apologized for it. D'ARTAGNAN I suppose you'd like to teach me a lesson in manners, too. ARAMIS I'd be honored. D'Artagnan brightens.   Another duel! D'ARTAGNAN How's two o'clock behind the Luxembourg? Aramis bows politely.
If that's where you wish to die, I won't disappoint you. Until then...
Three duels in one day. I love this town.
Have you seen the King? SENESCHAL No, Your Majesty.
Your Majesty...
Cardinal Richelieu, you surprised me. Cardinal Richelieu steps out of the darkness.     He smiles.
How was your ride?
My ride...?    Well, I... I'm not sure... RICHELIEU  Forgive me.  
Thank you. Richelieu turns to the great map, speaks gently.
You're homesick. ANNE  Lonely. Is that the same thing? RICHELIEU Sometimes. Richelieu brings his eyes back to Anne, continues: RICHELIEU Austria's loss is France's gain. ANNE I'm not sure my new husband shares your opinion. RICHELIEU Nonsense.    He's young, not blind.
Mostly, he is absent. I've barely seen His Majesty since our wedding, and that was three months ago. Whenever he's around me, he has nothing to say.
Arranged marriages can be difficult. Your father and I thought yours would bring Austria and France closer together.
Louis was only nine years old when his father was assassinated. He lost his childhood forever that day. I have watched him grow toward manhood, seen the toll his life demands. A boy who is not allowed to be a boy sometimes has difficulty becoming a man. He is shy, yet boastful. Giving, yet stubborn. But most of all, he is not yet sure exactly who he is. The boy who lost his father. Or the King of France. ANNE But how can I...?
Flatter him. Make the boy feel like a King. So that the King may be your husband.
His Majesty, the King.
Your Majesty. LOUIS Cardinal Richelieu, I've been looking for you.
Oh. Anne. Hello. I didn't know you were here.
Would you like me to go? Louis suddenly remembers the reason he's here.       Determin- ation breeds a more capable attitude.
No.  Please, stay. (to Richelieu, aware that she is watching him) Your Eminence, I demand an answer.
 Perhaps if I knew the question... LOUIS I've just been told that you went ahead and disbanded my Musketeers. RICHELIEU You approved the decision. LOUIS But not the timing of the matter. I intended to address them myself, explain the situation... RICHELIEU Your Majesty, France is on the brink of war. We dare not hesitate.
But these men are my personal guards... RICHELIEU They are the bravest fighters in France.  
I will be the judge of what is best. For me, and for France.
Of course.   Forgive me. A tense beat.    Anne, feeling out of place, steps toward the door. LOUIS Anne?   Are you all right? ANNE You two should continue this discussion in private. LOUIS (hesitates, seeks a reason for her to stay) Your thoughts on the matter interest me. They might... help.
It seems to me that... you're doing very well on your own.
She's beautiful.
Extremely. LOUIS Intelligent.
Very.
She scares me too. As do all women who join beauty to intelligence. What's a man to do?
 I have no idea. RICHELIEU The course of love is full of frightful turns. But, no matter how you feel, no matter how hopelessly afraid... never let her know that you are anything other than the bravest and most confident man in France. Make that your starting point, and everything else will fall... into place.
The bravest man in France...
Good advice for a shopkeeper. Let alone a King.
Your Eminence, I'm sorry that I was sharp with you. It's just that the Musketeers... well, they're not just my guards. They're my friends too.
I know.   But don't worry. 
He's a foolish boy. And barely that. RICHELIEU That foolish boy is about to become a man. (off Rochefort's look) Which is all the more reason for us to act... quickly. ROCHEFORT (reacts, knows what this portends) And the Queen...? RICHELIEU  She will receive me in ways she never thought possible. Privately. HOLD ON the Cardinal and Rochefort, watching the King and Queen below. CUT TO:
Get out of the way, idiot!!
Count de Winter.
 Yes. Now that you have, what will you do? COUNT DE WINTER Bring you back. To pay for what you did to my son. MILADY And if I resist...? COUNT DE WINTER (voice breaking with emotion) I will kill you with my bare hands.
Well if that's the case, I'd better start packing. But first, my hair... Milady, who has been removing combs throughout, reaches for the next, and...
Father?
Ten minutes early. D'ARTAGNAN I have another appointment at one. ATHOS You'll miss it, I'm afraid.
I'll try my best to be on time.
I asked two of my friends to act as seconds, but they are not as punctual.
D'ARTAGNAN But you're wounded.
Don't worry. I fight just as well with my left hand. 
 What're you doing? You can't fight this man.
Why not? PORTHOS Because I'm fighting him. D'ARTAGNAN Excuse me, monsieur. But not until one o'clock. ARAMIS  Wait a minute. I've got a duel with him, too. D'ARTAGNAN Yes, sir.   But not until two. ATHOS  How long have you been in Paris? D'ARTAGNAN I arrived this morning.
You've been... busy.
I've also fallen in love. ATHOS  Better to die for love than to live for it. Gentlemen? 
JUSSAC There they are!! Athos and d'Artagnan separate as Jussac and his four swordsmen stride towards them.
Jussac.   Again. Athos steps forward to meet him. ATHOS I told you the next time we met I'd want an answer. But I didn't expect you so soon. JUSSAC The three of you are under arrest. The boy's of no interest to me and is free to go. Do you intend to resist? PORTHOS Oh, don't be stupid. Of course we intend to resist. Just give us a second.
Interesting odds. Five of them and three of us. ARAMIS It hardly seems fair. Let's give them the chance to surrender.
 Excuse me, but there are four of us.
Bold and brave.
A poet. ATHOS Have you got a name, boy? D'ARTAGNAN D'Artagnan.
 D'Artagnan? The name has meaning for all of them. The Musketeers look at each other, deadpan, shake their heads. ARAMIS Impossible.
It couldn't be.
Athos... Porthos... Aramis. D'ARTAGNAN Pleased to meet you... How do you do?... Good to see you again... Meanwhile, Jussac and his Guards look on with increasing impatience. He clears his throat, draws his saber. The Musketeers turn toward the Guards, d'Artagnan standing among them. 
 Damn monks. Always spoiling everybody's fun.
They are nearer to God...
They're about to get a little nearer to the hilt of my sword. ARAMIS Pagan. PORTHOS Papist. Porthos slides over to handle one of Aramis' opponents. He'd rather bicker from close range. But Biscarat struggles to his feet, grabs his saber. Porthos sees him, sighs. PORTHOS  Excuse me? ARAMIS I'm fine, thank you.
ARAMIS Take a look at our young friend.
You mean he's still alive?
Now what...?
God, I love my work.
Last rites. Aramis takes death very seriously.
 Do you know where this bolo comes from?
 The Queen of America?
Spain.
Don't encourage him. By killing Jussac, the boy's made himself an outlaw too.
Not if he leaves Paris. Which is exactly what he's going to do.
I can't leave. I just got here.
Go home, find a wench, live long and prosper. D'ARTAGNAN Why can't I stay with you? Aramis and Porthos look to Athos.      As always, he will decide. ATHOS Because I do not want you to. It's hard to say whether he's acting out of concern for the boy... or he simply doesn't give a damn. Whatever the case, d'Artagnan is crestfallen. The Musketeers mount their horses, Porthos and Aramis adopt a friendlier tone.
I know Athos may seem cold and unfriendly, but don't let that fool you. PORTHOS He really is cold and unfriendly.
But he's also right. This is our fight, not yours. Go on, get out of here.
Whatever happened to the motto of the Musketeers? 'All for one, and one for all.'
Wake up, boy.    The Musketeers are just a dream. 
 There they go! After them!
 Long live the Musketeers. And d'Artagnan draws his saber.
The three Muskeeters rein their horses, look back to d'Artagnan's bold charge. PORTHOS  Do you believe this kid.
 Fall back! I'll take him myself!
Rochefort's got the boy.
 Too bad. ARAMIS You can't just leave him. Athos spurs his horse, rides away. Aramis and Porthos exchange sad looks and hopeful comments.
He has a plan. PORTHOS Definitely.   A plan. And with that, they gallop after.
GUARD This boy fights like a wildcat. D'ARTAGNAN  Thank you.
My sword -- ROCHEFORT It's magnificent. Where did you get it?
 It belonged to my father. ROCHEFORT Your father...
Well now it belongs to me. I collect swords. I take them from the men I kill.
I'm not dead yet. D'Artagnan starts forward. But Rochefort raises the sword, points it at his throat. D'Artagnan freezes, feels the sharp tip of the blade. ROCHEFORT Soon enough.
I'll give you a hint. It's not the Louvre.
 The Bastille! I'm in the Bastille!
Well, you're the first person who was ever happy to be here. Unfortunately, your visit will be a short one.
What do you mean? ROCHEFORT You killed one of the Cardinal's Guards. An offense punishable by death. D'ARTAGNAN He interrupted a duel I was fighting.
Also punishable by death. D'ARTAGNAN It was a long day. ROCHEFORT You know them?
Who?
The Musketeers. D'Artagnan says nothing.     He will not betray them. Rochefort leans close.
Tell me where they are, and I will be lenient.
How? 
D'Artagnan thinks fast... and joins them.
I have an errand that requires your singular talents.
I was beginning to think you'd forgotten me. RICHELIEU Forget you?   Impossible. Richelieu and Milady share a look of intimacy, two vipers from the same pit.
Carry this to the Duke of Buckingham.
ROCHEFORT You're going to go through with ... everything? RICHELIEU (silences him with a glance) Yes. Everything.  You're to leave for Calais at once. A ship called the Persephone will carry you to England. It sails Tuesday, midnight. I want Buckingham's signature next to mine before the King's birthday. Friday. MILADY Consider it done.
And doing so, shall earn you the gratitude of... a King.
CUT TO:
ROCHEFORT On your knees.
This is the boy who killed Jussac. D'ARTAGNAN I can explain that -- ROCHEFORT Silence! Rochefort punches d'Artagnan in the head, knocking him to the floor. The Cardinal frowns.
Rochefort. Violence solves nothing. Leave him to me. D'Artagnan reacts to the Cardinal's reasonable tone. Rochefort makes a sullen exit. The Cardinal smiles. RICHELIEU Please.    Sit down. D'Artagnan reacts with perceptible awe, as if seeing his first movie star. He sits in a finely brocaded chair, looks at the Cardinal, an apparition in red. The Cardinal speaks, his manner casual, friendly. RICHELIEU How much did you hear?
 Not a word, Your Eminence. I stepped from my cell for a breath of air, and became lost in the corridors, it's dark as you know, but then I saw a light up ahead, the light over your door, I... 
You may have many talents, my young friend. But guile is not one of them. Do you have a name?
D'Artagnan.
I've heard that name before.   Are you a Gascon?
Yes, Your Eminence. RICHELIEU Tell me. What brought you to Paris. And don't say 'a horse.' D'ARTAGNAN I came to join the King's Musketeers. RICHELIEU Bad timing.
So I've heard. RICHELIEU D'Artagnan, I like you. I could use a capable young man like you in my Guards.
I'm honored, Your Eminence, but I don't think I would be very popular with the other men. Not after today. RICHELIEU I suppose not. Your heart is set on being a Musketeer.  When I was your age, I too had dreams of joining the Musketeers.
 You, Your Eminence? 
I'm sorry. But I can't tell you what I do not know.
In that case, give my regards to the headsman. D'ARTAGNAN What about my trial? RICHELIEU You've just had it.
Wait -- RICHELIEU Why? Do you object to losing your head? D'ARTAGNAN Yes.   I like it where it is.
Then tell me what I want to know, and perhaps you will keep it there a few years longer.  Where are the three Musketeers? 
And if you did?
 I wouldn't tell you. RICHELIEU I admire your courage, young man. You might have made a fine Musketeer after all.
RICHELIEU But we'll never know, will we? Rochefort steps into the room, grabs d'Artagnan roughly by the arm, hurls him from the chair to the floor. This time Richelieu does not utter protest. Instead, he turns to the Captain, commands: RICHELIEU Find the three Musketeers and kill them. ROCHEFORT They'll be dead by dawn. RICHELIEU A comforting thought. Good night, d'Artagnan. Enjoy it. Morning comes quickly.
Milady left at midnight.   By private coach. RICHELIEU A remarkable woman. The most beautiful I've ever known. And the deadliest. Which would explain my attraction. (peering down at the scene) How is our young daredevil holding up?
He's wishing he'd never heard of the Musketeers. Down below, the horse cart reaches the scaffold. A man- at-arms drops the tailgate, d'Artagnan steps down. He is taken into the custody of a CAPTAIN OF THE GUARDS, and several men-at-arms carrying muskets.
For we are with you, always. The Priest raises his face, reveals it... and winks.         It is Aramis. He whispers: ARAMIS All for one, and one for all...
The good father is... all tied up.
Men call it justice.
Are you surprised? She replies   with contempt, reins her horse away from the square, the   crowd, the executioner's axe. But Constance freezes in   place, eyes wide. As d'Artagnan, upon the cart, rolls   INTO VIEW. CONSTANCE It's him.
 Gentlemen, your carriage. Compliments of the Cardinal.
Well, what have we here?
How considerate of the Cardinal to provide us with a snack. 
ARAMIS How is it that a man of God becomes a man of gold? PORTHOS  Trinkets for the ladies. ARAMIS Let's share.
Would you be so good as to distribute these? Your generosity will be greatly appreciated. D'ARTAGNAN  But...? ARAMIS  Throw the coins, boy.     The people are hungry.
They're firing at us!
Champagne?
You know I prefer wine. PORTHOS Don't go away.
May I recommend this find Cabernet? Porthos hands   the bottle to Athos. Athos hands the reins to d'Artagnan.    D'Artagnan struggles with the reins, tries to control the   horses. And beams, taking delight from every instant   of adventure. Athos SMASHES the top of the BOTTLE, drinks   deeply, settles back to enjoy himself.
Turn right at the next street. D'ARTAGNAN The next right...? ATHOS Turn. Athos growls, d'Artagnan jerks at the reins. The carriage careens around the corner, tipping on two wheels.
 That's it. Next time, you drive.
Gentlemen, this is the end of the line. I hope you had a pleasant ride.  Unhitch the horses. D'ARTAGNAN But the Guards.
Do as I say. D'Artagnan hurries to the horses. Porthos and Aramis climb from the cab. Porthos emits a contented belch. ATHOS  Your pistol and powder, please. Aramis hands Athos a sack of powder, and his pistol. Athos tosses the sack into the carriage, takes aim with the PISTOL, and SHOOTS it -- igniting the powder inside.
Stand back.
I'd give five years of your life just to see the Cardinal's face!
Ten! CUT TO:
One thousand pistoles on each of their heads, dead or alive. The boy knows our plans.
I haven't eaten in three days. I guess with all the excitement, I forgot. ARAMIS Your trip from home has been an eventful one.
 Three days. PORTHOS I heard of a d'Artagnan once. He was a captain in the Musketeers when we were just recruits. D'ARTAGNAN He was my father.
A good man, I'm told.
I knew there was something familiar about this boy. 
All my mother would tell me is that he died in the service of the King.
D'Artagnan, your father and another Musketeer were ambushed and murdered outside the Louvre. D'Artagnan pales, stunned and silent.      He manages a broken whisper: D'ARTAGNAN This other Musketeer -- is he still alive? I'd like to talk to him. Athos shakes his head.     Porthos adds:
You already have. His name is the Count De Rochefort. D'Artagnan isn't listening. He stands suddenly, turns, and walks away. He doesn't want the Musketeers to see the tears forming in his eyes. Aramis shouts after:
D'Artagnan. CUT TO:
 I imagined his death a hundred time. 
A man is better measured by his life than by his death. Your father was bold, and brave.
But you never knew him...
He lives in you. That's all the evidence Aramis requires.       D'Artagnan pauses to reflect. Then wonders: D'ARTAGNAN And your father?
I was orphaned at a young age. The church took me in. D'ARTAGNAN You didn't have one. ARAMIS But I did. He was a great man, a leader of the church. And his example inspired me to dedicate my life to God's service.
You were a priest... ARAMIS I was a fool. (eyes on the cool water) This great man, this father, betrayed the church, and turned his back on God. To worship power and gold.  
I joined the Musketeers and a strange thing happened. I got my faith back.
But who was that man...
 All of France knows him. His Eminence, the Cardinal Richelieu. D'Artagnan nearly jumps from his boots. CUT TO:
 Your Eminence. The Musketeers have been sighted riding north on the road to Calais.
Don't worry. Thanks to our winged friends, every mercenary and bounty hunter in France will be waiting for them.  Isn't modern communication a wonderful thing? 
... I couldn't hear it clearly, I was standing by the door, the voices were low --
Go on. D'ARTAGNAN The Cardinal sent someone to England. With a secret treaty. ARAMIS What? D'ARTAGNAN He's made an alliance with a man named, Bucking... Buckingham. The Musketeers look at each other with alarm. PORTHOS The Duke of Buckingham? D'ARTAGNAN  Do you know him? ARAMIS He rules England the way Richelieu rules France. D'ARTAGNANj A ship called the Persephone waits for the Cardinal's agent at Calais. To take him to England. Tuesday, midnight. ARAMIS  Calais is over two hundred leagues from here... 
Wait.
 Does the Cardinal know you have this information? D'ARTAGNAN Yes. ATHOS Then he knows we have it too. And he'll do everything in his power to stop us. PORTHOS But with three men trying, one of us might be able to make it. D'ARTAGNAN Four. Bold words. D'Artagnan matures by leaps and bounds. Athos almost smiles.
Cursing, the angry Mercenaries whirl about, FIRE at d'Artagnan and the three Musketeers as they ride into the night. Porthos' merry laugh drifts back to mock them. CUT TO:
 Thank God for a friendly face. My horse broke loose. Can you help me move these kegs out of the road? D'Artagnan starts to dismount.
Stay on your horse. D'ARTAGNAN He needs our help.
Don't worry.   We'll help him.
Gentlemen, I beg you. Please put away your weapons and remove these kegs from the road. We'd prefer to ride on without having to kill you. D'Artagnan and the "Farmers" gape at Aramis in surprise.
You're threatening us?
It's not a threat, it's a fact. If you don't haul those kegs away, you're dead where you stand. The Farmer laughs, contemptuously. He raises his pistol and aims it at Porthos' head. But before he can pull the trigger, THREE EXPLOSIONS ERUPT from under the cloaks of Athos, Porthos and Aramis. When the smoke clears, d'Artagnan is startled to see the three dead "Farmers" sprawled in the road and the three pistols emerging from beneath the cloaks of the Musketeers. PORTHOS Mine hit the ground first. ATHOS Mine was taller. Aramis swings out of the saddle and begins to perform last rites over the bodies. D'Artagnan still can't be- lieve what just happened. He turns to Porthos. Porthos raises the barrel to his lips and blows away the gunsmoke.
There's only one rule, d'Artagnan -- stay alive.
Good evening. ATHOS See to our horses and bring us some food. INNKEEPER  I'm sorry but we have little to spare. The Cardinal's Guards were here today. They helped themselves to our food and then refused to pay. ARAMIS  In the name of God, I'm sure. Porthos is on the lookout for danger. He reaches inside his cloak for a weapon and, in doing so, accidentally exposes his Musketeer tunic.
 Musketeers!
 Musketeers in my house! Gentlemen, put away your swords and come in. Anyone who fights the Cardinal is welcome here.
We don't have much but what we have is yours.
Ladies, you're in for a treat tonight. Allow me to introduce myself. I'm the Musketeer they call Porthos. Porthos beams, waiting for a big response but nothing happens. The Barmaids look at each other. PORTHOS  Porthos.
It's hard to believe they haven't heard of the great Porthos. PORTHOS Oh, shut up, Aramis.
 Aramis? Did you say Aramis? And with that, the three Barmaids desert Porthos and scurry across the room to attach themselves to Aramis. Porthos shakes his head and flops down in a chair. PORTHOS I don't get it. I just don't get it.
I said, 'A Queen is no different than a barmaid in the dark. Though less... practiced in the arts of pleasure...'
If you're going to be a proper Musketeer, you'll have to learn the manly art of wenching. Right, ladies? The Barmaids heartily concur. D'Artagnan looks over Porthos' shoulder, to the dark-haired Barmaid seen previ- ously. Porthos follows his gaze, grins. PORTHOS Ahh, very good. Your first subject. But you'll need instruction. Watch closely. Porthos pulls one of the Barmaids to his chest, brings her lips toward his. PORTHOS The secret to wenching is the first kiss. For in that kiss, a lasting impression is made. If it is weak, she will think you are weak. And if it is comical, she will think you are a clown. With me? D'ARTAGNAN Weak... weak.    Comical... clown.
Very good.   And as a Musketeer is never weak,  and only rarely a clown, your  first kiss must be all the things  that you are. Like this... Porthos gives the Barmaid a powerful kiss.      He breaks it, turns to d'Artagnan with a grin.
Only if you don't know which words to say. All turn to regard Aramis. He'll play along too. Porthos reacts with delight. D'Artagnan with interest. Aramis continues: ARAMIS Words may make a more lasting impression than a thousand of Porthos' kisses. BARMAID  Not likely. ARAMIS I'll demonstrate. Please.   Sit beside me. Aramis' courtly behavior is as out of place in these en- virons as it is persuasive. The Barmaid slips from Porthos' lap, sits down on the bench beside him. Aramis does not touch her. He simply looks into her eyes... and begins to speak. ARAMIS 'Shall I compare thee to a summer's day? Thou art more lovely and more temperate: Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May, And summer's leash hath all too short a date; Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines, And often is his gold complexion dimmed; And every fair from fair sometimes declines, By chance, or nature's changing course untrimmed; But thy eternal summer shall not fade.  
Shakespeare. PORTHOS That's cheating. The Barmaid on his lap disagrees.
It's beautiful. D'Artagnan looks at the dark-haired Barmaid across the room. Porthos urges him on. PORTHOS Come on, d'Artagnan. We haven't got all night.
The boy's a natural. 
In all the years I've know him... I have never seen Athos smile.
Why is he sitting by himself? PORTHOS Athos takes his drinking seriously. Ignore him. He'll be his usual warm, charming self by morning.  Service! My lap is cold! A Barmaid scurries INTO   VIEW. Porthos grabs her by the waist, adds the Barmaid   to the one already sitting on his lap. The chair breaks    beneath them, and all three go sprawling on the floor,   laughing heartily.
Come join us. Athos pulls d'Artagnan down with a dark smile.     He fills his flagon for him.
You fight like a Musketeer. Let's see if you can drink like one.
I'll drink anything you put in front of me.
Famous last words.  What shall we drink to?
Love.  Would you like to hear a story, d'Artagnan? A love story? Athos' voice reveals unexpected vulnerability, the pain he keeps inside. D'Artagnan is fascinated, moved. He nearly whispers:
Yes. Athos takes a long pull from the bottle of burgundy, wipes the blood red wine from his lips. ATHOS I once knew a man... one of the Counts of Berry. My native province. When the good Count was about your age, he fell in love with a visitor from Paris. A breathtaking girl of seventeen. She was more than beautiful, d'Artagnan. She was... intoxicating. And this man, the poor idiot, he married her. D'ARTAGNAN Isn't that what people do when they fall in love? ATHOS  Be quiet and listen.  The Count took her to his castle and made her the first lady of the province. They were happy for a time, as happy as a man and a woman can be. Then one day, while riding in the woods, the girl was thrown from her horse, and knocked unconscious. The Count hurried to help her. Her dress was torn.  
What? ATHOS The fleur d'lis. She'd been branded...
The Count's angel turned out to be a murderess who escaped the Executioner's blade. She swore that she loved him. Swore that she had changed. And if he would just keep her secret, they would live a long life together. Athos pauses, imagines that life.      The Count and his angel. ATHOS But the Count was young and he was stupid. He was tormented by the ridicule of his social class. And so he rejected her. For her lies and for her past.  And turned her over to the authorities to be executed for the crime.
But you see... his heart did not agree.  The Count soon realized what she had meant to him. And what he had done. 
He killed her. It seemed like the same thing after a while.
Good.   More for me. PORTHOS Aramis -- play something with some blood in it! I feel like dancing! Aramis launches into something appropriate. Porthos and a Barmaid get up and begin a festive folk dance. Porthos is damned good. His joie de vivre is infectious and soon everyone in the inn is clapping and encouraging him. Every once in awhile, another WEAPON -- a dagger or something -- drops out of Porthos' clothing and hits the floor with a CLATTER.
Care to dance, Athos? ATHOS Only if I can lead.
Excuse me, gentlemen.
Were we making too much noise? INNKEEPER You told me to wake you at dawn.
Well?
It's dawn. They turn in disbelief to the shuttered windows. Sure enough. Sunlight is peeking in through the cracks. CUT TO:
Beautiful morning, eh, d'Artagnan?
You know,   d'Artagnan, it's not a good idea   to travel on an empty stomach.    You really should have had a big   portion of those sheep's brains...
D'ARTAGNAN My head feels like it's filled with the King's marching band. Would you please stop whistling? 
Well someone is.
 The Barmaid's kiss left him dizzy. ARAMIS I hear it too. It sounds like... ATHOS  A connon ball.
I hate cannon balls.
 How's your head now?
I'm beginning to wish the Cardinal had chopped if off.
Stay with us, and you just might get your wish. Athos spurs his horse across the field, d'Artagnan and the Musketeers follow. But they discover crude battle- ments in their path. Athos changes direction, sees six horsemen waiting for them in the near distance. He changes direction again, as the horsemen charge after.
We'll see you in Calais! ATHOS Or hell!
But how, your Majesty? How can you tell if you're really in love? ANNE Do you think about him all the time? CONSTANCE  Yes. ANNE And when he's around, do your knees feel as weak as water?
Yes.
And when he looks at you, do you suddenly forget how to breathe? 
Then you're in love.
 I am.
Who is he? CONSTANCE You'll never believe it. ANNE Of course I will.
You won't. ANNE Who? CONSTANCE The young man who rescued us from the bandit.
The young man on the scaffold?
Yes. ANNE (turns back in the water, peers ahead) You're right. I don't believe it.
Are you in love, Your Majesty?
What an impertinent question. 
My love... is a matter of state. It's complicated. A sad beat.    Constance teases:
Do you think about him all the time?
 As Queen, my mind touches on many subjects. CONSTANCE Do your knees feel as weak as water? ANNE Never. CONSTANCE When he looks at you, do you forget how to breathe? A beat. And Anne is a girl of eighteen again, not Queen. Wistful, she replies: ANNE I hope he will someday.   I hope I will too. HOLD ON Anne for a beat.
Constance, have you seen my...?
Cardinal.
I need your help. And could not in good conscience wait another minute.
You want my help? RICHELIEU Yes.
On what matter? RICHELIEU Your... husband. ANNE (remembering Richelieu's last encounter with Louis) Your King.
Of course. As Your Eminence has been kind enough to advise me...  It's the least I can do.
I am worried about the King's... happiness. ANNE What do you mean?
The Huguenot rebellion, occupation in the Antilles and Cayenne. The coming war with France. These are not the usual hobbies of youth. ANNE No. 
He feels it is not... appropriate. ANNE It sounds as though he is concerned with more important matters.
Which is exactly why we must celebrate.  To show the world that the King of France is strong enough to face any enemy on any field. To show France... that he is King.  He will listen to you. If you will speak. Richelieu makes his case with forceful eloquence, seeming loyalty. Anne considers, replies, noncommittal: ANNE I will speak to him. Anne senses hidden agenda, intrigues below the surface. The conversation's conspiratorial tone begins to disturb her.
Now, if you'll excuse me, I... RICHELIEU Of course. Anne nods, turns back toward the chambers.       Richelieu calls after.
Your Majesty?  Please understand that I do not underestimate the value of your assistance.  
I'm sorry to be late, Your Majesty, but I was wrestling with an important matter of state.
Why is it I don't see any of my Musketeers?
I'm afraid... that's impossible. LOUIS Why? 
There must be some mistake.
No mistake. I have reports from the local constables involved.
Musketeers... RICHELIEU They are better off disbanded. Louis turns back to the balcony, the soldiers marching below. His mood glum and lonely. He sighs, moves on to another matter of business.
Your Eminence, I've been hearing some very troubling rumors about you.
There are so many to choose from. Is it the one about my alleged alliance with Buckingham? Let's see if I remember it correctly. While the English attack from without, I'll undermine the throne from within -- depose you -- and become sovereign of France myself. That rumor, Your Majesty?
It does seem rather farfetched.
I've been thinking about that. A birthday celebration when we're on the brink of war...
 Your subjects are eager to celebrate the birth of their King at a time like this. LOUIS I'm not so eager. RICHELIEU I have an idea. Why don't you discuss the matter with your Queen? Louis looks up, wonders. As Richelieu draws him deeper into his spider's strategems.
My horse will not survive another league. PORTHOS And you?
 Ten, twenty at the most.
EMPTY_LINE
A privilege to carry you on my humble boat... The Ferryman turns a greedy eye on the Woman and child. FERRYMAN Two pistoles.
But I only have one. Couldn't my child ride free? She's so small... FERRYMAN (hand outstretched, demanding) Two pistoles. A courtly voice intervenes.
Put away your money, madame. You and your child will cross the river under our protection. For free. 
Porthos! PORTHOS What? Aramis takes Porthos by the shoulder and turns him so he can see their pursuers pouring over the top of the hill on their horses. PORTHOS We sail!
Popularity has its price.
I have some excellent brandy here. Would you gentlemen care to drink a toast with us to the Cardinal? PORTHOS We'd be happy to. Porthos produces a bottle from under his cloak. PORTHOS If you'll drink one with us to the King. SECOND CAVALIER But the only King we recognize... is the Cardinal. ARAMIS There are those who would call that treason. FIRST CAVALIER Happily, no such objections have been raised... here. PORTHOS All right.   I'll object.
I'm listening.
Let's see. You are, by your dress and by your manner, members of a bone-lazy class of servile ninnyhammers whose slavish allegiance to His Eminence the Cardinal is as that of a dog who likes nothing better than to sniff today where he has peed the day before.  
May I reply? ARAMIS  By all means. FIRST CAVALIER Better to be a dog in the service of a great master, than a beef- witted moron so dazzled by the throne that he does not see the true nature of the foolish boy who wobbles atop it. Which is to say, that most muddy-brained of all men... a Musketeer. The Cavaliers have already pulled out their swords. Porthos and Aramis now reach for their own. Porthos deadpans: PORTHOS Maybe there's something  about us that just pisses people  off. At least I'd like to think  so. It's too bad we can only kill  them once.
I've been called a lot of things in my time... ARAMIS (eyes on the opposite shore) Porthos... PORTHOS But beef-witted is a little more than I can stand, not to mention unfair... ARAMIS Porthos... PORTHOS What? Aramis indicates the opposite shore as the flatboat approaches it. There, waiting patiently, swords and muskets already drawn... is a patrol of Cardinal's Guards.
Can you swim? PORTHOS (doesn't like the sound of this) No.   My horse can. ARAMIS That'll do.
But...?
A nice relaxing boat ride... 
Do you think we've lost them? ATHOS They'll catch up eventually.
My father used to hunt in a forest like this. He promised to take me on my tenth birthday. I don't know why he picked that year. Something about a boy becoming a man. I'd lay in bed at night and imagine it, just the two of us. But he died before I could go with him. Athos is unmoved, or so it would seem.       He replies with quiet cynicism: ATHOS Well. You have your boyhood wish at last. The dark forest. The thrill of the hunt. The nearness of death. Only d'Artagnan is the hunted, not the hunter.
I'd be proud to die for my King. ATHOS I just wanted to save you from the life of a Musketeer. You don't have to go looking for experience, d'Artagnan. It'll find you soon enough. And when it does -- it will mark you forever.
I'll hold them off for as long as I can. Go on without me. D'ARTAGNAN I can't leave you here. Not like this.
Ride to Calais and stop the Cardinal's agent.
Athos... I can't.
Go, or I'll kill you myself.
A duel then. 
We never finished the first.
All right. I'll toss a coin. Tails I stay, heads you remain. Agreed?
But...? Athos reloads, FIRES below. D'Artagnan recognizes the kindness he has received. That Athos cannot fully express it. And that there is no use arguing with him.
At least take my pistol.
 Don't let us down... Musketeer. There are tears in d'Artagnan's eyes.       He knows Athos hasn't got a chance.
 I'll never forget you.
Go! Athos turns away, SHOOTS at another horseman.       D'Artagnan runs to his MOUNT, GALLOPS away.
We hear HORSES, and the CREAK of a CARRIAGE APPROACHING. The DRIVER brakes, and the horses are brought to a halt just short of trampling d'Artagnan. In the darkness, we can make out other shapes, rugged men on horseback, bodyguards to the carriage's passenger. Milady de Winter. MILADY What is it, Henri? HENRI There's a body in the road, Milady. MILADY Be careful. Pistols are cocked.    Henri's shadow falls across d'Artagnan's body. HENRI It's a young man. He appears to be injured. We hear the CARRIAGE DOOR OPEN.     FOOTSTEPS to d'Artagnan's side.
My, what a handsome boy. Put him inside with me.
CUT TO:
Welcome back.    Did you dream?
D'ARTAGNAN You. MILADY Have we met?
I... saw you in Paris. D'Artagnan notices that his shoulder has been bandaged. He looks around the large room. A FIRE ROARS in the grate. Food and drink have been set upon a table. D'Artagnan continues, still groggy, uncertain: D'ARTAGNAN Where am I...? MILADY This is Calais.
 Calais!  The ship... Tuesday at midnight... D'Artagnan leaps out of bed. Then realizes he is stark naked. Milady smiles. D'Artagnan gathers a bedsheet around him. D'ARTAGNAN  Where are my clothes?
It's Tuesday, near nine. D'ARTAGNAN Nine?   Are you sure?
MILADY Quite sure. D'Artagnan relaxes slightly.        Milady rises from the bed. She wears a sky blue dressing       gown, something soft and silken beneath it. D'Artagnan        reacts perceptibly. En- joying his discomfort, Milady       crosses the room, joins him at the window. MILADY Are you in a hurry? D'ARTAGNAN  How did I... get here? MILADY I found you in the road. Discarded. Like an unwanted kitten. Do you have a name or shall I make one up for you?
 My name is d'Artagnan.
D'Artagnan. I like that. I am the Countess de Winter. Milady. D'ARTAGNAN Countess?
My husband's dead.
I have learned to live with death.
Countess, I'm very grateful for what you've done, but I can't stay here. I've got...
What...? D'ARTAGNAN Important business. MILADY How mysterious. A handsome young man with 'important business' in the still of night. Does it involve a young lady? D'ARTAGNAN No. MILADY Does it require clothes? D'ARTAGNAN Yes.   I need my clothes. MILADY They won't be ready for at least an hour. D'ARTAGNAN An hour? MILADY I told the  innkeeper to bring them when they  are dry. Until then, I'm afraid  you are my prisoner. Would the  prisoner care for a drink?
Good. Then we will sit by the fire, and eat and drink, and you may impress, perhaps even move me, with the story of how you came to lie unconscious, in the middle of the night, on the road to Calais.  I love a good adventure. D'Artagnan hesitates, then steps to her. CUT TO:
 The wonderful thing about an imaginary opponent is that he is always greatly skilled, and always easily defeated. The pride of victory, without the risk of loss. If only life were like that.
I told you not to worry about the Musketeers. They are dead by now.
Buckingham's signature will be on the treaty by morning.
The King's birthday celebration...? RICHELIEU Will proceed as planned. Thanks to the kind intercession of Queen Anne. Rochefort steps closer, speaks quietly. ROCHEFORT And our plans...?
 Will proceed as well. Richelieu pours two glasses of port, offers one to Rochefort. They turn, raise their glasses to the King's portrait. And drink. CUT TO:
You are sad.
I was thinking about my friends. Milady knows when to speak, and when to listen. She looks at d'Artagnan with gentle expression, allows him to continue. The warm room, the wine, her kindness. All conspire to loosen his tongue. D'Artagnan speaks quietly, from the heart:
What brings you here? D'ARTAGNAN I'd like to tell you. But I can't.
'Important business.'
I understand. Men make bold plans in secret. And women wait... to mourn, or to celebrate the outcome. I know from experience, it's a lonely vigil. D'ARTAGNAN  All I can tell you is... I'm on a mission for the King. MILADY (looks up; laughs lightly) I've heard that one before. D'ARTAGNAN I'm serious. MILADY You are a young man. And young men are given to exaggeration. However, if you would like to entertain me with a story, I'm eager to hear it. And please, make it very brave, filled with handsome knights and beautiful ladies. I know, a dragon -- There is nothing a man is more loathe to experience than a woman who does not take him seriously. D'Artagnan acts accordingly, and reveals: 
Of course.  But, d'Artagnan, if this spy was to find out you are here, your life could be in grave danger. D'ARTAGNAN A Musketeer is not afriad of danger. MILADY I'm dangerous. You're not afraid of me? Her tone heralds a sudden shift. D'Artagnan sees the look in her eyes, can almost feel her lips upon him. But he resists. There is Constance's memory to consider. And midnight as it approaches. D'ARTAGNAN You're not dangerous.
Then what am I?
Beauty, danger. They are the same. And with that, she reaches up to her hair, an ivory comb...
D'ARTAGNAN I'm sorry -- D'Artagnan pulls back -- just as Milady's arm arcs down toward his neck, holding a long sharp stick pin, almost a dagger, attached to an ivory comb. D'Artagnan sees it in the nick of time, parries with his free hand, knocking the dagger to the rug. Milady leaps after it, hands out- stretched. D'Artagnan follows, battles for the dagger, stunned with fear and surprise:
What're you doing?! Have you lost your mind?!
You came to Calais to stop a spy from sailing to England.
My God... 
MILADY Kill him. Parker holds him fast. Henri steps forward.        And d'Artagnan thinks fast. D'ARTAGNAN You can kill me. But a surprise waits for you in England. That even Buckingham can't prevent. MILADY (stops Henri with a gesture) What... surprise? D'ARTAGNAN That's one thing I'll never tell you. MILADY D'Artagnan. You are young, vain, and foolish. But I do not know if you are clever.
We'll take him with us.  
The back stairs. Hurry! They change directions. As he is pulled away, d'Artagnan catches a glimpse of Armand de Winter below.
The man at the inn... what did he want? MILADY  Justice. Honor. Revenge. D'ARTAGNAN Why?
He is the brother of my late husband, Lord de Winter. He blames me for de Winter's death. He thinks I murdered him. D'ARTAGNAN Did you murder your husband, Milady? MILADY What do you think?
I think he's not the first husband you killed.  I once knew a man, one of the Counts of Berry. He told me a story... of beauty and danger. He was the bravest man I've ever known. And the saddest.
I know...
What's the matter, d'Artagnan? Still hoping for your friends to ride to the rescue? D'ARTAGNAN My friends are dead.
Well. If it's any consolation, you'll soon be joining them. Milady's return to form does not surprise. Parker shoves d'Artagnan toward the fog-enshrouded ship. A name can be made out on her barnacled hull. Persephone.
We are the Countess de Winter's party, arrived from Paris. Permission to come aboard.
Take us to your captain. The tall figure does not reply, nor does he move.        Henri demands: HENRI What are you, deaf? Henri goes to shake the man. He grabs his arm, and the man pitches forward, falling face first on the deck. Henri jumps back in alarm. Milady and the others react. BODYGUARD What is this? Milady's Bodyguards rush around the deck, confront the other silent silhouettes. They, like the tall figure... are dead. The limp bodies topple at their touch. The Bodyguards shout alarm and panic:
Dead!   They're all dead!
Well I certainly hope so. After all that hard work.
 You look like you've seen a ghost.
Remind me to tell you the story of horses that could fly above raging waters. A heroic tale of love, death, and Musketeers. Suitable for the general public. Porthos wades into the Bodyguards, at play, shouting as he goes. PORTHOS All right then. All those who wish to die, raise your hands! Don't by shy, there's plenty to go around! D'Artagnan grabs a sword from the deck, turns to join the fray. And finds himself face to face with Parker, the Indo-Chinese bodyguard. Parker has two Oriental swords spinning in his hands. One knocks d'Artagnan's sword out of his hand. D'Artagnan does a back flip but falls on the slippery deck. As Parker is about to chop d'Artagnan's head off, his face grimaces as he is lifted on a sword OUT OF FRAME. In the mist Athos is revealed! ATHOS Sorry I'm late. Did I miss anything? D'Artagnan almost cries with happiness.       He leaps to his feet and embraces Athos. D'ARTAGNAN I thought you were dead.
Keep your mind on the mission, d'Artagnan.
What do you mean?
First, always find your enemy's weakness. Second, take advantage of it. Watch me.
Find the weakness. Take advantage. Got it. Aramis kneels at a dying man, delivers muttered last rites. A Bodyguard races INTO VIEW, means to kill him where he kneels. Aramis doesn't miss a beat -- he shifts, rises, delivers a punch and kick, knocking the man off the ship to the water below. A SPLASH is heard. And Aramis resumes a priestly pose, continues the litany. CUT TO:
That's our ship... The two Sailors pull out daggers, and bound up the gangplank.
Porthos the Pirate!!
I told you I was famous. D'ARTAGNAN Porthos the Pirate?
Privateer.   There's a difference. Every Musketeer is running from something or someone. D'Artagnan deadpans: D'ARTAGNAN I love a good sea story.     Do tell me sometime. Porthos reacts to d'Artagnan's jest. But before he can reply, the youth has bolted back to the fray.
Did you find the Cardinal's spy?
Yes. ATHOS Did you kill him?
Athos.   The spy... is a woman. 
No.
Stop!! Milady takes a halting step, then turns to face him. Athos holds his musket in a steady hand. A very long beat. Milady takes a step closer. Finally, she whispers, with love, with hate: MILADY Athos.
How did you do it, Sabine? How did you come back from the dead?
I did not.
No, Count. You were too proud to listen to the truth. I learned the value of lies soon after.
Give me the Cardinal's treaty.
No. ATHOS Then I will shoot. Athos cocks the trigger.     Milady whispers: MILADY Be kind.   And aim for my heart. Athos' face is a mask of contradiction. He tries to pull the trigger, but it is not in him. Milady recognizes his pain with a nod. She feels it, too. Then, briefly, before she leaves him, Milady speaks softly. The past, their love, and where it led them.
I remember... everything.
Countess de Winter... As d'Artagnan, Porthos, and Aramis arrive on the scene...
EMPTY_LINE
He is not mentioned directly. But the agreement is contingent on a 'demonstration' of the Cardinal's power. D'ARTAGNAN A demonstration? What does that mean? ARAMIS I don't know. Athos' face grows dark. He has been silent throughout. Now he rises to his feet.
I know someone who does. D'Artagnan, Aramis, and Porthos watch in grim silence as Athos crosses the room to an imposing door. CUT TO:
I'd like a word with your prisoner.
 She dies at dawn.
There was a time when I would've given my life for a kind word. ATHOS I could not give it, Sabine. I was... a fool. Milady hears the regret in his voice, holds his gaze. Athos indicates Armand in the corner. ATHOS Did you kill his brother and his father as he says? MILADY (a long beat, honest at the last) I have become... the nightmare you once thought me to be. ATHOS But not before. Not us. MILADY No. The memory will keep me company. Athos kneels at her side, near to pleading:
Do you know the Cardinal's plans? MILADY Yes.
Tell me.
Will you spare my life? ATHOS I can't. 
Sabine. You'll die for your crimes. Nothing can stop that. But how you leave this world is up to you. Milady offers a half-smile, takes his hand in hers.
What did the world ever do for me? HOLD ON Athos.       Milady's hand in his.   All that he is feeling. CUT TO:
Porthos leads Milady. She wears a simple white shift, her hair pulled back into a long braid. She looks years younger, the girl she used to be. The Executioner walks behind them. Followed by Armand de Winter, Aramis, d'Artagnan. And Athos. He watches every step.
I forgive you for your crimes. Die in peace.
Die in peace.
I am the resurrection and the life, sayeth the Lord. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live; and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die... The Executioner's sharp blade shines in the light of dawn.
On your knees. Milady kneels, the Executioner steps closer. The tableau silhouetted against a reddish glow on the horizon. The Executioner brushes Milady's braid from her neck, exposing the soft white skin beneath. He raises the scimitar overhead, and just as he is about to bring it down... a cry is heard, torn from the heart:
No.
What's this...? Porthos leaps forward, locks his great arms around Athos.
Athos -- But Athos breaks free.       Milady rises to her feet.   Athos rushes to her.
Forgive me, Sabine.       Please forgive.
The Cardinal intends to assassinate the King at his birthday celebration on Friday. And with that, Milady reaches forward, offers a gentle kiss. Then, as Athos and the others look on, stunned, uncertain... she takes a backward step, finds the cliff's edge... and steps over it. The Executioner rushes to look after. The others follow. Except for Athos, who remains rooted in place, eyes on the distant horizon. A long silence. THUNDER RUMBLES. EXECUTIONER God's justice be done.
The King's life in danger.   We have work to do.
Impressive.
He can do it every time. Rochefort signals approval to a solitary marksman positioned far away on one of the roof parapets. The marksman rises from a shooter's crouch, bows curtly, and begins to reload his musket.
And he has no qualms about... ROCHEFORT None. He believes that man should honor no Kings before God. RICHELIEU A man of faith. How delightful. (turns back to the painting) Whatever you're paying him, double it. I want the King's birthday to be a memorable event. And rehang this painting in my chamber. Just as it is. HOLD ON Richelieu for a beat.   Framed by a sky filled with stars. His evil intent. CUT TO:
... the aforenamed Musketeers are declared outlaws and are sentenced to death. Any person sheltering or aiding them will be hanged -- HOOFBEATS interrupt. The Captain turns in irritation. And Porthos and Aramis ride to either side, snatch the man up by the arms, drag him briefly through the air, and deposit him with a thud against a hitching post. The Captain, stunned, looks down at the piece of parchment now attached to his chest. All For One, And One For All. CUT TO:
They look... happy.
Hungry, more likely. LOUIS Still, you were right about the celebration. And when the Cardinal told me how much it meant to you... ANNE I said nothing. LOUIS But... ? ANNE The Cardinal expressed in confidence how much the celebration would mean to you... Both pause to consider the manipulation.
France will not go wanting. A new King will sit on the throne. The true King after all...
Yes, Your Eminence.
Are you sure? ROCHEFORT I'd stake my life on it, Your Eminence. RICHELIEU  Rest assured, Captain. You have.
 Look through the surrounding area. We'll try to reach the King...
But...? ATHOS Go!
I do not trust him. LOUIS I'm not sure who to trust. ANNE Then we will discover the truth together. Louis likes the sound of that.     They step side by side toward the balcony. CUT TO:
CUT TO:
The murmur of the crowd becomes an excited roar. The corps of Musketeers line up behind Athos, Porthos, and Aramis. Porthos and Aramis exchange a smile. Athos keeps his usually dour expression. But his eyes are charged with excitement. They raise their arms, and face the long line of Guards. A hundred sabers flash in the sunlight. ATHOS Save the King!!
Your Majesty...
Leave us... alone. That's when a loud BOOM rocks the room.
 Kill him. Kill her, too.
LOUIS  Get behind me. Rochefort takes confident steps toward the King. But one last BOOM and the great DOOR comes CRASHING down on the Guards, revealing a tide of Musketeers on the other side. Athos, Porthos, and Aramis at the lead. 
Not for long.
Athos and Rochefort slash at each other. It is a mighty confrontation. But Athos soon gains the upper hand. Rochefort shouts to a nearby Guard for help. Now it's two on one. Athos receives a wound in the shoulder, he staggers... and the treaty falls from his tunic to the floor. Rochefort reacts with a start, he grabs the treaty, stuffs it into his doublet. Athos shakes off the sudden pain, disposes of the Guard. Rochefort and Athos face each other a second time. Athos wounded, Rochefort confident he can finish the injured Musketeer.
ROCHEFORT One thing's certain. You're no Musketeer. But d'Artagnan remembers Athos' advice. "Always find your enemy's weakness." He shoves a thumb into Rochefort's good eye. Rochefort stumbles backward. D'Artagnan plunges his sword into Monsieur Cyclops's heart. D'ARTAGNAN Take it back...?
I might... have been... mistaken.
D'ARTAGNAN No!!
Your Majesty, that document is an obvious forgery. I am clearly the victim of a conspiracy designed and perpetuated by these three Musketeers.
This is a complicated matter, Your Eminence, affecting both France and the crown... A beat. As all wonder if Richelieu will manage to elude blame after all. But Louis continues with quiet author- ity, just a trace of humor. As King, and as a man. LOUIS And so, until such time as I and my advisors -- (gestures toward Anne; the Musketeers) -- can determine the whole truth of the matter. I invite you to await our decision in the comfort of... the Bastille.
You can't do this to me.   I'm the Cardinal of France. 
And as King... I hereby reinstate the Musketeers. A tremendous cheer is heard from all. Richelieu is led from the room. He pauses in front of d'Artagnan. RICHELIEU Congratulations, Monsieur d'Artagnan. I'll be keeping an eye on you. D'ARTAGNAN  Thank you, Your Eminence.    I'll be watching you, too. Richelieu smiles his crocodile smile. Followed by guards, he turns and strides away, hands clasped behind his back, scarlet robes billowing behind him. Louis turns to the Musketeers.       He indicates d'Artagnan.
Is this the young man who saved my life? Porthos puts a hand on d'Artagnan's shoulder. PORTHOS His name's d'Artagnan, Sire.
Approach, d'Artagnan.
I have something that belongs to ... Your Majesty... D'Artagnan produces the bracelet he found on the country road. He holds it out to her. The King wonders, the Queen smiles. 
LOUIS D'Artagnan, I am in your debt. What can I do to repay the courage you've shown me? Anything, D'Artagnan.  Whatever your heart desires... D'Artagnan knows what he wants. But he is tongue-tied, unable to ask for it. Athos asks for him. ATHOS Majesty, his heart has only one desire. To become a Musketeer. D'Artagnan looks at Athos, thankful for the intercession. Louis answers with pleasure. LOUIS Then kneel, d'Artagnan. D'Artagnan drops to his knees. Louis lays the blade of his sword on each of his shoulders. LOUIS The world is an uncertain realm, filled with danger. Truth despoiled by broken promises. Honor undermined by the pursuit of gold. Freedom sacrificed when the weak are oppressed by the strong. But there are those who oppose these powerful forces. Those who dedicate their lives to truth, honor, and freedom. They are a constant reminder to all of us. That such a life is not just possible, but necessary to our continued survival. As a country, as a King. These men are known as the Musketeers... 
Rise, d'Artagnan. And join them. Musketeer.
Do my eyes deceive me? ARAMIS I find it hard to believe myself.
His lips, unused as they are to such a contortion, twisted and stretched... into a smile.
It was spectacular. And what teeth.
I know this is a stupid question. But what exactly does a Musketeer do?
PORTHOS Truth... honor...
 And freedom. 
All for one... OTHERS ... And one for all!!
