What's wrong?
Nothing.....nothing really.  I just feel kind of lousy.  I need something stronger.
If you have a problem, don't hesitate to ask for assistance.
Yes.....Thank you, I'll be all right.  I'm all right.
For more rapid results use your new D code on your Mercicontrol card.
T.V. MONITOR
What's wrong?
What's wrong?
....never mind.  I'll replace these later.
You ought to eat.
I started your dinner for you.
I'm not hungry.
Well it's fixed, so you'll have to eat it.
No, your going to eat it, or it will go to waste.
What's the matter with you?
....in the constant striving for perfection in the AIA.PB848's which have been built this year.  Five felons have been caught fleeing rehabilitation center dd2.  All five have been  undergoing treatment for drug offenses, two of the felons were products of the sex act, the other three....
What?
Two of the felons are products of the sex act, the other three are from reproduction clinic nineteen. The quintet escaped from compound 545 and were all subsequently destroyed. Reports indicate....
What's this?  Why did you change it?
You've seen enough.
You know I don't feel well.
Eat your dinner.
....and then my request for new arms and legs finally came through.
Well that's great then.
No.  It's terrible.  I ordered two arms and a new leg, and they sent me two legs and a new arm.
THX is expressionless.
That was very funny.
What?
What's wrong?
Help me.....HELP me.....
What's wrong?
Take four red capsules, in ten minutes take two more.  Help is on the...
Concourse 5.....Cross 3.....Monitor concourse 5.....3417 are you there? Relate....relate.....
LUH reaches for a container of yellow pills, she thinks for a moment, then returns the pills to the container.  On the monitors there is much confusion in the destroyed passageway.  People move along the corridor to get a better look at the accident.  LUH pushes a button and a tape activates.
Do not enter this area without consuming j23.  This is a traumatic area.  Do not enter this area without....
Radiation suppress.  Seal chamber 5G, seal chamber 5G.  Exterminate occupant.
What's wrong?
Fire in sub-station 35k, command 13, we've got 73 men down here...
You are a true believer, blessings of State, blessings of the masses Thou art a subject of....
Stay calm, correct procedure is essential.  Do not fail to remove auxiliary command circuit before evacuation.  Vacuum detail and suppression units for your area have been notified and are on their Way.
My time is yours, go ahead.
Very good, proceed.
Well.... I slipped on a T5 transfer this morning.  It's never happened before.
Yes.
....going well.  How could I be so wrong.  SCO 1202 cross wired a 904.  He's been receiving extra credit.  He offered me some.
Yes
I did not accept any.  I...  I wanted... to.  But I didn't. You know I didn't.  Don't you?
Yes.
My mate has been acting very strange.  I can't explain it.....but.  I haven't been feeling very well myself.  I don't know, maybe it's me.  I needed an SP9 last night.  I feel as if something odd were happening to me. Something....
Yes.
I can't understand.  The sedatives....
....I'm taking SP5, but it doesn't seem strong enough.  I have a hard time concentrating.  Please forgive me, I slipped on....
You are a true believer.  Blessings of the state, blessings of the masses.  Thou art a subject of the divine.  Created in the image of man, by the masses, for the masses. Let us be thankful we have an occupation to fill.  Work hard; increase production; prevent accidents, and be happy.
THX is in a large hall, crossing over to a bank of small boxes along the wall.  He attempts to open one of the boxes with a plastic badge from his lapel, and struggles for a moment before finally getting it open.  He pushes some buttons inside the box, then closes it.  He is very tired; almost unable to cope with the trivia of daily life.
THX turns around to leave and is confronted by LUH, who has been standing directly behind him.  She is holding a punch card.
What do you want?......
 What did you get?
I have to see SEN.  I've just been given a shift change.
When?
Now.
Now?
He wants me to come to his quarters.
 A shift change should come through the scheduling office.
I don't know.
Don't go.
I have to... he's a G-34
You don't have to... I don't trust him.  You ought to file a report.
No, don't make trouble.  It's nothing.
Then why did you bring it up?
I didn't.  You asked me about the card.  You're going to get us into trouble.
I haven't done anything.
Don't be so sure.
....to stimulate the arithmetical and logical processes as an extention of the 5141.  Never before have we been so contented, never before has life been so satisfying...  there is a jump in the man's movement - a reminder that he is only a hologram. ...so satisfying.  A referendum of bliss, a fabrication of gratification sustained by the benevolence of authority...
What?
a referendum of bliss, a fabrication of gratification sustained by the benevolence of authority...
That's not what I meant.
...the inadequacies of the human
LUH?
...an infinite translate in mathematics of tolerance and charity among artificial memory devices is ultimately binary.  Stimulating...
LUH?  is that you?
LUH?
sealed personal effects:  3 styrenes; an occupational syntax; a red magna base - old style; a box of neons; a variation; 23 hunter portapods.
Well?
It's you, come in, come in...you know, this is really odd.  I was just thinking about you.  What in the world are you doing here?
 For the moment, I thought you were one of the others.  You look much... different - in person.
Sit down, why don't you?....(THX does not sit) Anyway... I must apologize for all this chaos. They materialized this morning and it's been going on all day.  Well, it's cross I have to bear - the roommate was destroyed, you know.
No...I guess you wouldn't. Terrible inconvenience.  I could never understand why it all must be created and filed if it's going to be destroyed anyway.  When I pass on, I certainly don't want anyone going through my things.... It's a strange life.  I really cannot understand why you don't sit down.
 You never answered my question.
Well, at least you're sitting down...  You must excuse my going on like that.... with ONA gone I feel as if I have no one to talk to.  You're perspiring, aren't you?  My goodness, it's not very hot in here.  Are you sick?
I'm sure it's warmer in her than outside, though.  I haven't been out yet, but it usually is...the control is fouled... 
Where is LUH?
What?
Count concluded.
You must keep this.
 Yes, of course.
They really smell.  It's disgusting. Did you notice it?
Why did you have LUH come here?
Why are you so concerned?
What's going on?
I want you for my roommate.
Where's LUH?
It will be good for both of us. I've got it all arranged.
I don't understand. Living....selection is computed. You can't... What have you done to LUH?  She was here..
We had a long talk and she agreed that it would be a good idea for you to switch.  She felt that you had not been accurately mated to her in the first place... You're upsetting yourself.  Would you like something?
You're in violation.
Don't say that.  You look...  You're not well.
I know what you're thinking... Program shifting isn't that major a crime is it?  LUH is a problem for you.  I've watched her during work.  She's been acting very strange.
I won't have another mate like ONA.  You rate very high in sanitation.  I've checked.  In fact, I am surprised that you were ever matched with LUH.  Her ratings are very erratic - you know what I mean.  We'll be happy.
I don't feel well.
....with me?  What am I to her or she to me?  Nothing.  She's an ordinary roommate.  I..I share...
Yes...
...rooms with her.  Our relationship is normal, conforming.  We share nothing but space.  What is she doing to...
Yes...
...to me.  I think I'm dying.
You are a true believer.  Blessings of the state.  Blessings of the masses.  Thou art a subject of the divine.  Created in the image of man, by man, for man.  Let us be thankful we have commerce.  Buy more.  Buy more now.  Buy more and be happy.
Idiot machine!  Someone ought to fix this machine!
LUH?
 I need help.
What's wrong?
Nothing.  I was looking for my tenser.  I'm sorry.
If you have a problem....
 Violation...violation...You're bouncing in...violation..
I've never been under the table before.
 Look,dirt!
 That's not dirt...Can't be dirt.. Dirt is a violation.
Looks like dirt.
Look, food!
That's not food.  Can't be food.
Looks like food.
Tastes like food.
Produced to be consumed!
Hey!  Wait a minute.  Not all of it.  I'm hungry.
 The pain, no...the pain, I can't stand it.
Why?
Why did you do it?  It's wrong.... we're wrong.  We're felons now.
Now...now, I'm sorry...don't - don't....please.  It's just... I was happy.  Why get me involved? You told SEN that you weren't satisfied with me.
What?...Oh, no, THX.  That's not true.  Not satisfied?  THX, I need you so much.
I was so scared...I didn't know what would happen with you...once I started.  I almost let you go on so many times.  It will be worth it, together.  When I was alone, I knew.
But it's so hopeless...you're so beautiful.
What time is it?
What?
I said what time is it?  How long was I out?
It's 3+27 hundred
Three!  I'm going to be late for my shift.
 No!  Don't go.
 They'll come for me right away if I'm not there.  I have to go.
Don't take anything.
I'll try.
Promise...please don't THX leaves the room.
What are you doing here?  Is anything wrong?
No....I though  I'm afraid.
You're not cleared for this precinct.  Let's cross over first.
You slipped on a T297 transfer just before lunch, didn't you?
 What?
On the cervix transfer, you almost lost the T297.
What do you think you're doing? You're going to get us arrested.
But...you...
I can't work this way.  I need something.  I'm losing control.
I can't go on like this.  I can't....  I don't just sit around and watch people.  If I make a mistake, it's all over.  You see it every day.  Do you want to see me taken away in pieces?
I don't want to lose you.
....and it all happened so slowly that most men failed to realize that anything had happened at all.
They had never known what all know within, that to know is not to know, not to know is to be known.
To remain still is to flow with the will of OMM.  The breath of OMM is infinitely slow, yet he breathes.
Before OMM was OMM, after OMM will be OMM, within OMM is OMM, without OMM is OMM.  OMM is one.  We are one, Mass is one, All are one....
I don't want to lose you.
Unity of minds, unity of thought, unity of occupations, unity of OMM A man.  Blessings of the state. Blessings of the masses, Thou art subjects of the divine.
What are you doing?
I don't know.
What am I going to do?
 If you....if you go back on sedation, you won't feel the same way about me.  You'll report me for drug evasion.
I've got a slip movement to install on my next shift.  I'll never make it the way I am now.
I couldn't turn you in, not now. I....I know I wouldn't!
You don't know.  You don't....
If I take something, you suffer. If I don't, I stuff....
 I know you can do it without sedation, You can, I know you can.
Then what?  It can't go on forever. You know it can't.
We could leave, and live in the superstructure....
....My series is over, you only have one shift left, don't you? We could be gone before our next series started.
It's all right now, shhhh it's all right.
Don't let them separate us.
Are you all right?
AH UGH.
They know.  They've been watching us.  I can feel it.
They don't know.
They're watching us now.
No one can see us now we're alone.
.....This is a reminder of the precision which must be taken at this stage.  Three operating cells have already been destroyed in this shift.  Mercicontrol is supervising all operations during this phase.  Prevent accidents, and be happy.....This is a reminder of.....
What are you doing here?  You're not cleared for this area!
You know I have a way with the computers.  I can clear myself for any area.....almost.
I'll report you.  It's....
Listen to me....You have no need to distrust me.  We're going....
Get out of here, Leave me alone.
I've taken care of LUH.....
....I've programmed her to level 5450.  Her transfer should go through by the next series.  You're going to need a new roommate. Everything.....
1138 retract.  SB4 talmod contract, retract to 220.
We are receiving an extreme respiratory count from a Magnum Manipulator in operating cell 94107. Erratic visual behavior.
Transfer control information.
1138 files a violation report on SEN 5241 immediately prior to.....
Violation type?
Illegal programming.
Check into it.  Current brain wave confirmation on 1138.  Adrenal off point 74 or minus 6.  No doubt of severe sedation depletion......Inform Magnum supervisor 9410 of procedure to mindlock and arrest.  Request MINDLOCK for operating cell 94107; subject 1138 prefix THX.
Magnum Manipulator 1138 prefix THX, operating cell 94107, suffering severe drug violation.  Extent pending.  1138 subject to immediate arrest.  MINDLOCK pending.  MINDLOCK pending.
Priority shift, repeat, priority shift.  The situation here is critical.  1138 involved  in critical mass maneuver.  DELAY MINDLOCK, DELAY MINDLOCK situation white, repeat, situation white. HOLD...HOLD.....
Who permitted this priority??? This shouldn't happen. Immediate transfer of disaster responsibility to control officer 626, as of time mark: 12/32/581. Repeat; official obligation of responsibility.....
Clear....Clear....4444,4445,
Near destruct....Near destruct.
.....MINDLOCK! release MINDLOCK! relapse to command monitor. Release MINDLOCK.  Transfer obligation for responsibility to central monitor 898.  This center received no evaluation of stasis.  Control center 626 holds no responsibility.....
Everything is going to be all right. You are in my hands.  I will protect you.  Everything is going to be all right.  Cooperate, stay calm, I am here to help you.  Everything is going to be......
Relax your controls.  Relax your controls.  Report to Con 5 immediately.  Relax your controls.....
LUH!
1138 prefix THX on warrant. Drug evasion. Fled tram in transit. Surmise destroyed.
Seal break.  VAC debris receptacle 444.  Entrance on con 65. Investigation in process.
Maintained visual contact with THX 1138 until 5.34.  Lost contact at express tube 929.  Surmised destroyed.
I'm in the kitchen, come and see!
THX?
THX, Please.....
....answer.
No...no...LUH, help me....help....
LUH!...Help us..OMM, OMM help us.
OMM forgive us for our sins.  Save us.  We are one, mass is one, OMM is one.  OMM Help us.....
 I am here to help you. Relax. You have nothing to fear.  I am here.
Increase.
No... here... hold this down.
Audio...
Audio is already on.
I can't hear him.
Cortex bonding....possible temporary.  Before you report a possible equipment malfunction, you check the subjects....?
Stress category.
Correct.  Origin?
Birth born....UMMM...Sexact.
Violation?
Drug evasion with....
triple three, triple three! easy.....
Drug evasion with assorted perversions
Correct.  Now secure a sinex drop reading.
A sinex drop reading of less then 2000 degrees with an accompanying loss of greater then 350 degrees since admission may indicate....?
Permant cortex bond.
Correct.
This really isn't a very good subject because with a cortex bond, we're restricted to about a quarter of the boards potential.  .....All this over here is wasted on him. See, we could run a system H.....Watch.
Normally, there would be no visual evidence of a system H.  We're not even getting a reading.
HUMMMM.....
What happened?
See if you can get a reading on tactal retention.  Try to estimate it without a meter reading.
Be careful, now.....
UMMM..Let me see.....
Hurry up.
4732...?
Too low.
Control ON.
No, evidently you reversed the polarity on his lobal travel. Secure another sinex drop.
4000 degrees is usually the point of....?
Vocasity
No, Tetanty.
It's very rare to see a nurl bond dissolve like that.
He's back to normal now.
Are you...are you real? LUH?...LUH?
Are you all right?
What did they do to you?
I'm going to have a child.
no...no, no.
Oh, THX... hold me, hold me, THX holds her tightly, tears in his eyes.  They kiss, and LUH hides her head in THX's chest.
It's the end.
I'm not afraid...I'm not afraid.
It's wrong; so wrong, what we've done....
I didn't want this.  How did it happen?  Don't leave me...  stay here with me.
You have to be strong.  You're going to have a son.
Neron activity has risen to +942 Carbon rating +22.3.  Tri-base off .732.  Contrast.....
No person held to service in one section under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service, but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service may be due.
 THX!
 No!...No!...
1138 prefix THX charged with violation index 3278.927, appendix 445 to 613.  Drug evasion, malicious sexual perversion, unconditional response and transgression.  Justice proceed.  Pontifex 606 presiding.
Begin.
Mercicontrol respectfully places its evidence before you.
9198,5116, and 1447.  These negative documents are certified by A.N.- O,T.O. and registered at files, tomb 34.
....nondrug, nondrug total excuse. 1138 is unstable condition...not responsible for acts.  Nondrug, asylum....asylum.
Mercicontrol respectfully submits a 5254, immediate destruction, on the basis of an ECO TR-X 314; totally incurable chemical imbalance with socially deteriorating consequences.
Reject, reject.  Inefficient unwarranted destruction.  Must be saved...mass is one...  can be productive.  Name of economics; cure this soul...malignant cure. There is a heritage of good and economic efficiency....  net gain.
Insane.
Granted.
Immediate destruction is the only efficiency.  The crimes are of secondary importance.  The issue is one of genetic inferiority. This man is of womb.
He is the product of an illegal sexual perversion and should have been destroyed at the moment of conception.  What is in question here is a concept in economic efficiency and procedure that has allowed these erotics to exist and dilute this great society.
Inane...inane...
Rejected.
The services performed by these erotics must be automated.  If sexual perversion is to be stamped out, the products of this perversion must...
Reject...reject...reject... What is the prosecution doing?  This is not a race issue....not here. Remember sanctity of the individual regardless of race.  A nonresponsible act...simple case. Birthborn citizens are physically compatible with clinic types and must be consumed, not destroyed. Econ equilibrium status 542 through 691 apply to case.  Defendant used, not destroyed.  Case rest.
The perversions committed by this obsolete race have a definite corrosive effect on our society. If he is not destroyed, his deviate characteristics will be transmitted to others.  We must not continue to consume these erotics.
Conclude.
If 1138 is consumed and not destroyed, this perversion will spread.  He must be destroyed.  It is the only logical, efficient, and righteous verdict which can be reached.
Concluded.
Proceed.
 OMM be praised.  All are One. Praise be to the masses.
1138 prefix THX stands convicted of index 3278.927 appendix 445 through 613.  Drug evasion 321, 399, and malicious sexual perversion.
...1138-THX is pronounced invaluable.
THX 1138.
It's all right...you're safe now.
Then why are they holding us here? Why don't they destroy us right away?  Economically, it's not sound at all.  Very much unlike....
I've said many times before, and I guess I'll have to repeat it again for your...
They're mad...mad...
It is incalculably more destructive for you to believe you are about to be destroyed then if you actually were destroyed.  We've got many residents on the verge of hysteria! It's got to stop....your unpleasant....
We're just waiting to die!
Calm down!  Nothing can be accomplished in an...
You always manage to avoid the issue:  What's wrong with our present condition?  We're COMFORTABLE and we have plenty of food...I feel absolutely no threat because there is no threat. Why incite trouble?  You should examine your emotions.  It is senseless...
What are you talking about? When did you sleep last?  Do you know what your trouble is? You're blind.  You've been here so long you can't see what is happening.  We must unite.  We need unity.  We need action.  We have come to a time when we must....
Please...
Hi, buddy.
Look, will you please get off.
Hi, buddy.
Hello....
......buddy?
Buddy.
I want to learn about what you're doing, huh?  Tell me something nice about what you're doing.
.....doing?
Yeah, what you're doing, you know.
I'm doing....working....a space... viable....
Naa...that's not nice.  You know that's not nice.
Tell me something nice.
......doing......
Pervert!
Damn insidious malicious pervert!
Help!
Pervert.  Pervert.  Pervert.
Pervert!  Pervert!  Pervert!
CAM 5424.
You're real!  Where did you come from?
I know you turned me in.
I'm doing quite well here anyway.  What's wrong with you?...Don't be like that.  You're a stupid man!
.....without pity!
But.....
Without pity!
Too fast!  If only I could see a fixed point.
Umm.....
....my friend?  Your point of view....
 Yes, CAM.  That's it....Your point is well taken...CAM, but it lacks the balance that a broader and a deeper range of experience can lend it.  When I first arrived here, I saw things as you do now. I was confused and anxious about my predicament.  I longed to thrash out, to tear down, to destroy and annihilate; to ravage, wreak havoc, and plunder.  Being basically level- headed, however, I realized that my first goal should be to study this place, where what seemed blind circumstance had placed me.  To follow the train of events and the ever-changing display of characters that I saw before me - of which I am of course a part - and to try to discern a pattern within the confusion.
I set forth on a program of study which continues up to this very day and which has afforded me a few glimpses - if not actual insights - into the nature of the world around us.  I never regretted my youthful passion - quite the contrary, it provided me with the original spark which has since settled down to a comforting and enduring glow.  But I would caution you that spark - if uncontrolled - may leap into flames of senseless and disastrous action and consume what you are endeavoring to conserve.
Listen to the mumblings of an old man and bank those flames with earnest inquiry and honest observation.
Mumblings is right!
Do you know how many times we've had to listen to that speech?
Do you know how many times? ....We've had to listen to that speech?  He thinks everyone's as stupid as he is.  You know what you are?  You make me sick.  If we all thought like you they could come in here and...and...  do whatever they wanted!
Sooner or later, you'll be taken away and destroyed just like the others.
In the years to come you will be grateful for what may now seem like senseless sacrifices.  With a passion such as yours, I don't think it would be foolish to say that you might see further and deeper than any of us, right to the heart of Truth herself!
You're frightened.  You're frightened that at any moment you'll be taken away.  I know, I've felt that way.  I couldn't eat.  I still have trouble.  It goes right through, all the time.  I know all right, but I'm better now. I can more or less regulate it.  I don't think you can understand. .....Terrible, terrible, terrible.... I've been thinking about you.
You seem alone.  I know.  I've felt that way.  At work...they told me I was a first class transport regulator. Yes, a tram pilot.  What do you think?  Between level 3472 and level 3500, module center 55 - the big one.  A toilet: it's a toilet. Still, bad air is better than no air.  And the time- tables.  Shall I tell you?
What?  He's not very friendly, is he?  He said you were roommates.  Was he always so...strange?  All he does is save his food.  He eats a little....  very little.  He may die.  Of course, he may change.  Things do change.  I'm the same... (DWY offers THX some of his food) Have my plycron...what do you want me to say? (He sits, watching THX eat) Could we be friends?  We could leave together.  I have a plan.  See this? (He takes a spoon out of his shoe) I'm making it sharp.  We'll dig..
I should have known...You're with them.  You want....
Then SLE and RNH, who came between PRT and MNH, but not before ALF, FRG, and MLK.  ALF, FRG, and MLK went before SAM, RNG, NUR, and KLM.  Then RRG, STK, OUN, and FLT. And after them came....came....
Four quick felons prepare the bed modules to be cleaned.
Huh?
Four quick felons prepare the bed modules to be cleaned.  Four: F; Quick: Q; Felons: F.....
Four....quick....felons prepare.  FRK, QUM, FLN, PSK, and TEL; BGL, MLT, TRN, BRK, and CLS.
Yes, fine!  You see, history is not only important, it can be fun as well.
I can't believe it!  MRK CRK TRK SRK BRK.....
You know what I want?  Ideas....
We've just got to be sure it's the right idea.  But we'll find it. We'll know it when we see it. I'll know it when I see it.  Clear and straight forward and plain as the nose on your face.
 Of course it is true that no one has ever returned once they were taken away, history tells us that, but it is idle to speculate about the reasons why and absurd to torture oneself over an idle speculation as NIN is doing.  NIN has in fact destroyed himself many times over with worry.
That's what I mean by the wrong idea.
I am not going to try to prove the usefulness of history, it is genuinely too obvious to need proof. We see before us innumerable scenes, like what we just witnessed, that succeed each other in endless repetition.  Where we see the same faults followed regularly by the same misfortunes, we may reasonably....
Don't you think you could do something about that?  It's very distracting.
...we may reasonably think that if we could have known the first we could have avoided the second. The past should enlighten us on the future, knowledge of history is no more than an anticipated experience.
 You're wrong!  They're going to destroy him!
I can just barely see him.  I think he's leaving.
Impossible!
I don't see anything.
I can't see him at all.  He's been destroyed.
No, look!  Three degrees from the central azimuth.
He's free!  Can't you see: he's free!
I can see him.  He's coming back.
Where?  Oh...there he is.  He must have been stopped. (to NIN, sarcastically) Don't you think?
He was stopped.  He was stopped.
He's coming back for the rest of us.  He can't make it alone.
I wonder how far he went.  He's gathered invaluable information out there.
The reckless fool.  I'm not responsible.
What happened?
What stopped you?
How far did you go?  Was it cold?
You have nothing to fear.  You're safe again.
Wait!  I'll talk to him.
Ask him about the air.  He looks out of breath.
Can you speak?  Can you hear me?
I want to help you.  You can help us.  Here, take a biscuit.
You understand me, can you speak?
I think he's deficient.
I don't think so.  Why don't you go find something else to do?
Then why doesn't he speak?  Can't he hear?  I don't think he knows.
He took my food.  He stole it.
Now, now.
 I thought you were through with it!
We cannot stay here and allow ourselves to be destroyed.  You can work with us.  An organized plan of escape must be devised first.  Could you see anything?  You want to leave.  You're not like them.  You must have left something, or someone.
A plan.....an organization.  I will see to it that we all get out of here safely.  As soon as you give us a detailed description of the barrier, we can begin. Information is the key. We must concentrate on gaining information.  You're with us, I know.  I have a contract..
All it says is: you're with us. We can only make it together.  We must convince the others.  Well, later, then.
Without most of us realizing it, a "new alignment" has been formed... and it is an exciting, healthy development..  this alignment is already a new majority; it will effect the future of us all for generations to come.  We need a new unity, but not a unity which discourages dissent.  We Need dissent.
But we need a creative dissent. Our voices are not joined in any harmonious chorus, but the differences are differences of emphasis, not of fundamentals. Now, the new alignment's greatest need is to communicate with all its elements, rather than march along in parallel line that never converge.  Tomorrow as we focus the new movement more clearly, we will gain a new unity.
What?
A nondescript: 364-1399284 The policeman exits; the freak stands helpless and frightened.
What is it?
Good Lord!
 A shelldweller.  They live in the outer shell of the city.  Quite unique, there have been two here before.  They smell.
Interesting....
Get....get away, get, get, get, get away....
Leave it....for a while.
There!
No, nothing.
There!
Nothing.
I think that a leader must, whenever he possibly can, make the decision for more knowledge rather than less, but he must also have the wisdom to limit freedom so as to insure freedom.  That is what will keep us strong and give us direction.
Well?
Out of a random selection of 150 locations with 150 possible sightings, there were 146 absolute negatives and four conditionals, most of which occurred in the early familiarization stages of the experiment and can be largely discounted.
Not very encouraging.
On the contrary!  It absolutely proves what I have always felt. We are located in an apparently uniform space with no visible limits.  We are just now beginning to push back the clouds of ignorance and perceive the truth.  We must continue the search.
I have always tended to believe that this kind of knowledge is all well and good in its place, but anything can be taken too far, and when you've got everyone looking off into telescopes and not tending to business right here, then, I believe, we have gone too far.
The sighting of a fixed point beyond our confines is fundamental to all other problems and issues.  It would instantly determine whether we are, whether this world is, in fact, moving or standing still.
I have been thinking seriously recently about the role we are expected to play as individuals and as a unit within the broader outlines of society.
Each of us, of course, feels very strongly as an individual, but I think we could all agree that there is something here that binds us all together.  In this way, we are a whole made up of different parts. But in the way that each of us relates to all of us together, all of us together are but a part of society as a whole.
Now I come to my point: each one of us can be in unity with the rest only if there is a leader who can the unifying.  When Posterity judges our actions here it will perhaps see us not as unwilling prisoners, but as men who, when faced with the choice, preferred, for whatever reason, to remain as non-contributing individuals on the fringe of society.  We must not let this happen, gentlemen. The choice is there, make no mistake about it!
We must first choose a leader to unite us together, and then venture out and return once more as contributing and vital members of the greater organism of society.
Aha!
......because of the great pressure and bad air, they never attain a height greater than four feet although some of them are ferocious fighters and show great courage and skill.  Whether they are descendants of those who lost them- selves in the superstructure, or whether they are actually a separate race, no one can tell.  They depend on their strange appearance and peculiar smell to fend off any intruders, and they make the city shell a most unpleasant place in which to be lost.  The authorities tolerate a moderate amount of them at any one time, but they must be kept under control with occasional sweep campaigns, which is probably where this one came from.
 Because of the great pressure and bad air, they never attain...
I've got it!  Astounding!
What?
No one could have imagined anything one-thousandth as fantastic as the sober facts uncovered by patient inquiry.  This world is in a state of static-mobility:  we are at the same time moving and standing still.
That's the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard.
It may seem ridiculous to the untrained mind, but if you were able to interpret the calculations you would see that an apparent paradox is actually a perfect and elegant system in concept and design.
However, for myself there is a great deal more that I would like to know.
 There goes another of your disciples.
It seems I am destined to endure many frustrations....but at the same time I am secure in the knowledge that the thrust of my studies has been in the right direction, and that even if it remains incomplete, my search has not been in vain.
Our life is brief and powerless. On all of us, the slow, sure doom falls pitiless and dark.  Blind to good and evil, reckless of destruction, omnipotent authority rolls on its relentless way. Condemned today to lose our friends, tomorrow ourselves to pass through the gate of darkness, it remains only for us to cherish, before the blow falls, the lofty thoughts that ennoble this little day; disdaining the coward terrors of the slave of fate, to worship at the shrine that our own hands have built; undismayed by the empire of chance, to preserve a mind free from the wanton tyranny that rules our outward life; proudly defiant of the irresistible forces that tolerate, for a moment, out knowledge and our condemnation, to sustain alone, weary but unyielding, the world that our own ideals have fashioned despite the trampling march of unconscious power.
What is the Freak doing?  He chews, but he doesn't seem to eat.  The longer it stays, the greater the mess.  Nobody lifts a finger. Isn't anybody going to get rid of the damn thing?  All of its leavings are piling up.
I can't do a good job.  As soon as I get things cleaned up....it's hopeless, a hopeless task. (pointing to the others) I'm going to tell them I've had it.  They don't know any better. Countless diversions.  Deciding where we are.  Arguing about leaving.  Trying to determine the future.  Ridiculous.  What about keeping things livable here? Now?  can't hide anything.  I can't put anything aside.  Nothing can be saved, nothing....can be hidden. They're beginning to go into my corner and look for things. Their things.  They're my things.....  They're going to take it all.  I know what they're planning.  After all my saving, starving...there must be something else.  Don't you agree?  You're calculating...
LUH 9998
 LUH! .......
 What happened to her?  Do you know where she is?  Why isn't she here...  What are you thinking?
I'm leaving.
What?
I'm leaving.
When?.....How?
Right now.
But you can't...you.
Wait, I'm coming too.
 What's going on....what are you doing?
We're leaving.
What?
We're leaving.
Who?  Who's leaving?
THX and me.
But you can't.  We must escape.
Wait....sit down, let's talk about it.  You can't just do this on your own.  We must present a united front...gather more pertinent information... plans have to be made.
Think of the new alignment.  What are you doing?  You can't do this!
We must escape.  We have plans. We can leave.  We must wait until...
Incredible!
The air is getting thinner.  Or the pressure is getting greater. It's the pressure.
My ears feel funny....are you sure this is the right direction?
It's the air.  It's closing in.
I haven't got time.  You can stay here if you like.
No!
It shouldn't be this far.
What?
Look!
Oh No!
It doesn't seem to be moving.
Look, he's waving...It's a man. He's waving.
Hello...hello.  Where did you come from?
Well, it doesn't make any difference, I guess.
What's that?  Food?  Good, I'm starving.  Do you mind?
What are you doing here?
I was lost.
...and you're not lost now?
 No, I...
You know the way out?!
 Um hmm...
Which way?
 That way.
That's where we were.
Maybe you were traveling in circles. That's the way out.
How do you know?
Look more closely.
Wait, help.
There was nothing there.
It could lead anywhere...
No...Let's not...
 Let's head for that door.
We've lost SEN!
What?
Lost SEN!  He'll never find us.
Too late....stay close.
...it doesn't matter.  The rest of it just didn't happen.
What are you talking about. How do you know?  I need her!  I need her.  She needs me.  I've got to get to her.
Maternity ward, huhh!
We'll never make it through that mainway...I wonder what happened to SEN.  I'm crazy!  This whole thing is crazy...What am I doing?  My mind is full of so many things I can't think of anything, anymore.  Who are you?
Who?  Me?...I don't know.
What kind of answer is that?
I don't know.
You have to!....I'm 1138 THX Magnum manipulator 347 cell 94107 Precinct 3 Residence:  Level 6421 Complex 12 Ramp 5.  Roommate 3417 LU...H.
Oh, That!  I'm 5555 SRT Entron..
 I don't care.
It's all her fault!...She put orinase in my sedation.
How can I love her?
Look!
No!
You are engaged in an unauthorized procedure.  Check cybernetic manual F-45.  If you do no have an F-45, you are in violation.  This is a double A restricted precinct. Remain where you are.  Authorities will arrive shortly.
You should know better than that!
They took everything...and then they were going to take my food.
My food....I was afraid and I ran away.
I know it was wrong, OMM.  I want to go back...I want to do the right thing.  I want to go back.
.....and two inmates have fled detention block R, habot 92. They have been missing for approximately 3:32.16 hours.
1138 THX and 5241 SEN.  Relay current position.
We have a U65 on a K8.  Transfer all unauthorized contacts in precient 688 CON-G to this center. Mode 7.
Request two PB848's:  officers 1999 and 2187.  Proceed with recovery operation of felons 1138thx and 5241sen.  Current position reproduction center 35, precient 688, CON-G.  Report when felons are in custody, revised position: HOLD.... Felons have entered maintance area of reproduction control computer 35-B4.  Transfer.
 This is not the place for prayer.
If you want to speak with OMM you must go to a UNICHURCH, you know that.
 Yes....
What?....Are you in any trouble?
No...No...I'm all right.  I'm going now.
Are you SAG?....What is your number and prefix?  I'm going to have to put this in your record.
No...I'll just leave.
 I'm sorry, I have to report all intruders.....Where is your identification badge?
 I lost it.
You're in violation.  I'm going to notify the authorities.  This is beyond my jurisdiction.
No!  Give....Give me time.
OMM...OMM What have I done?
We need assistance.  Electroscan impossible.  Must rely on visual sighting.  Request three additional officers.
Assistance priority request filed. Continue with operation.
....and both felons were located in reproduction center 34. Apprehension pending.  Priority shift for 3 additional officers delayed.  Subjects will be returned to.....
Priority shift granted.  Officers 5254, 9696 and 1970 dispatched to Con G.
It's about time .
Termination of exurban link-DD NECK 08.  This tram will return to central web in five minutes.
I have an unusual report - a nonaccidental death.  Are there any felons reported in section 692 CON F?
No, the closest thing I have is in CON G, they couldn't have done it. Relay to analysis.
...Let me recheck ....... Backlog on case 6178821150.
I have an unexplained discrepancy. A description of one of the felons trapped in reproduction center 35 doesn't match his Harris profile. Transfer any unauthorized contact for a radius of 30 sections.  Relay.
I'm sorry...I didn't mean to frighten you.
How did you get me up here?...
What was that....
Must be an expressway.... You don't have to stay here, you know....
What have you done, Cut your hand?
I'm all right THX rises and they begin to walk along the passageway. At the end of the hall is a small metal door, a sign read "Level 842CON G, Division of Plastic, Vendable manufacturing stations" the door is jammed and it is difficult to open.  Finally the latch snaps and the door swings open.
My inducer fell off.
 What...?
3114 knocked it off.
 Oh?....
He didn't mean to.
Look out!
 What's the matter with you?
I'm sorry...let me see it again.
What are you doing here?  Where's your badge?
 I'm an escaped felon.
You are not!  Why aren't you arrested?
I'm waiting to be picked up.
There!
What's your name?
SEN 5241
I'm 3114 and he's 1112
Hello.... (Looking at the pouch) How is that?  Any good....
 O.K.
When I was in school it was all different.  We had to lie in bed all the time.  ADVANCED PRIMARY ECONOMICS was a bottle about this big.... (he indicates a football sized object)  It took a week.
Wow!
Would you like part of this? ....It's not much.
 All the insides are gone!
Did you know all the insides are gone from these people?
This one must have been a genius!
...Yes, definitely smarter then the rest.
This one has eyes.  Why did they leave your eyes? Could you ever....
 No!....
 I knew him.
Soon he'll be a plastic cube.
 Shut up.
Your a fool.....If you continue after LUH, you'll end up here. Forget her.  You can't go back.
We've lost contact with 1138.
Visual contact with 5241SEN. ....Habot 25 CON-H, PS947.
Request PB848:  officer 1088 proceed with recovery of felon 5241SEN. Current position Habot 25, CON-H, PS947.
Negative sweep of CON-J, section H.
Try closer to the reproduction center.
 No...impresses on each of us.
That's not how it goes.
Yes it is....
Go on.
.....There are no other rational alternatives in this way.  We eliminate the economic function generated by the contrast of separate but compatible energies.
Elements!  Compatible elements.
Energies.
You're right.
 See!
He doesn't know.
We're trapped.
That's a waste of time.
 That's not it.
 No?
There!......There!
Come here and help me, we have no time.....
The only way out seems to be the way we came in.
This is OMM.  Everything is fine. You are in my hands.  I will protect you.  Co-operate with Mercicontrol. They only want to help you. Everything is going to be all right.
She's not there
No...... She's dead THX........
 You don't know that!
All right...
Get up for a second....
There...
Remember this...?
Where's LUH?
Look more closely.
That's all that's left of her besides something like what's in the next room.
 No...no you're wrong.
I'm only trying to help you.
 You're wrong.
I'm sorry.
What do you want?
Save yourself....
...life seems very natural, once you have been born, but, for the unborn it is a frightening mystery. It is not easy to choose life if you have never lived.
Observation booth 649, Division of plastic, CON H He flips to another channel.
Request 2 PB848's:  Officers 4242 and.... (He checks his computer readout.....) ...2284.  Proceed with recovery of felon 1138 Prefix THX and unidentified companion.  Current position:  Vendable manufacturing Center 92.  Observation booth 694. Precinct 331.  CON H.  Report when felons are in custody.....
No visual contact in OB 649.
That's allright.  They're not going anywhere. (He speaks into his dictating machine...) ...research into advanced relay systems must be given more attention if any.......
Heart 6G, lungs 35OR, liver defective, kidney-right-641A...
Just look at all those people.
I thought of something.....
Gentlemen, you have nothing to fear, everything will be all right....
Stay calm, the door seems to be jammed or locked; please check the lock on your side.  We are not going to hurt you.  Everything will be all right.
Stay calm........
repeat..fire in observation 649 ..... all systems....
Get ready...
Discontinue all operations....
Repeat..discontinue all operations. Correct procedure is essential...
Report!
Felons now fleeing section..
Hold.... mindlock Precinct 331 CON H general area... MINDLOCK.....
Mindlock stabilized, felons unaffected.  Pursuit instructions.
 Continue pursuit, disregard previous instructions, proceed.
Mindlock impossible.  Subjects suffering...total chemical imbalance.  Mindlock completely disrupted.  Request destruction clearance.  Stand by.
 Proceed to dispersal center 21. Projected route of flight will be transferred.
This way!
Stop your vehicle.  Officers are approaching from both directions. Stop your vehicle.  You have nothing to fear.
Everything will be all right, you are in my hands.  You have nowhere to go.  I am here to protect you. You have nowhere to go.  You have nowhere....
I don't understand.  He's not stopping. (into another intercom) Is scope 621 giving an accurate reading?....fine.  Just checking. Officer 3333, Abort....Abort....Abort...
Officers 9641 and 2242 discontinue operation.  Report to Thermal station 62.  Present operation computed to be economically unfeasible.  It is predicted that 1138 THX will self-destroy.  Repeat: Abandon present operation.  Dispatch to Level 56 CON-R thermal station 62, investigate toxic chemical leak.
