When I live in the land of the Leal.
I say, this is outright rude of the man!
He's undoubtedly been detained.  That's all.
Speak up -- what is it, woman?
Well...are we or are we not invited to dinner?
Apparently we are.  How long has he been gone?
I can't rightly say, sir. - Several days...I hardly catch a glimpse of him lately.  He never leaves the laboratory and comes out only to nibble at his meals...but he did tell me days ago about dinner tonight and left these instructions. 
Thank you, Mrs. Watchett.
What does it say, Filby?  What's wrong?
Nothing really. - George merely says that if he is not here by eight we're to begin without him.
Dinner is served, gentlemen!
First sensible thing I've heard all evening.
This is peculiar.  He is usually very prompt, precise and punctual.
He's making fools of us by inviting us here and then not showing up. It's not the behavior of a gentleman.
To say nothing of the waste of time.
To say nothing of the waste of time.
There!...there...
this instant he is in a sorry state.  His clothing is tattered and dirty, his face pale, bruised and scratched and his eyes glazed with fatigue.  For a moment he hesitates as if dazzled by the light and then takes another swaying step into the room.
Good lord! - What's happened?
I'm all right...just some food...a drink...
Are you all right?
Meat...I'm hungry for meat!
Well, can't you speak, man?  What happened to you?  Aren't you going to tell us...
Leave him alone, can't you?
It's all right. - I want to tell.
It will keep, George.  Eat, rest a little.
No!  I must tell it now... while I still remember.
Relax, try to relax a bit.  You've all the time in the world.
You're right, David.  That's exactly what I have. - All the time in the world!... ever since we were all together five days ago, the last day of Eighteen Hundred Ninety Nine.
There in that box rests the result of two years' labor.
 I wanted to finish the job before the new century began. - I barely made it.
Marvelous.
What is it?
Well, it has to do with time.
 I've always maintained what this nation needs is a reliable timepiece. The Navy needs one. The Army needs one. - For the artillery you know.
Couldn't do better, George.  So that's why you've been in hiding. - Clever of you, indeed!
When I speak of time, I'm referring to the fourth dimension.
Go on, George.
Now, as you know, the difficulty in explaining the fourth dimension is that it cannot be seen or felt - it must be thought of.
If you don't mind, George, would you refresh me on the first three dimensions.
Really, Filby, they must have taught you something at school!
Dr. Hillyer) Suppose you explain it, Doctor.
Certainly! (he demonstrates pompously) When I move in a straight line, forward or backward, that's one dimension. - When I move to the left or right, two dimensions. - When I move up and down, three dimensions. (a bright idea lights up his face.  At last he can get ahold of the box, but Filby interferes before Dr. Hillyer can get his fingers on it and he has to be satisfied with merely pointing) For instance, this box has three dimensions:  length, breadth, and height.
Well, then, what's the fourth dimension?
Well, that's...that's mere theory! No one can really say what the fourth dimension is or even that it exists.
On the contrary, Doctor!  The fourth dimension is as true and as real a dimension as any of the other three.  In fact, they couldn't exist without it.
How do you mean?
Well, take that box.  It has the first three dimensions, as you said. But what if it didn't exist in Time? It wouldn't exist at all, would it?
No.
So - for an object to exist at all, it must exist in the fourth dimen- sion....and that fourth dimension is duration....Time!
All right!  But what's in that box?
I'm coming to that.  But first, consider!  Why is it that we usually ignore the fourth dimension?  Because we have no freedom to move in it.  We can move in the other three -- up, down, forward, backward, sideways. But when it comes to Time, we are prisoners.  Do you follow me, Anthony?
George!  You've given a most lucid explanation and all that!  But I don't think I entirely understand.
Look!  There are a lot of things in the world you don't understand, aren't there?
Of course!  Quite a number.
But you don't refuse to believe in them because of that?
Not if I can see the proof with my own eyes.
Good!  All I'm asking you to do now is to witness a demonstration of the possibility of movement in the fourth dimension.  Philip, will you please hand me that box?
I've told you.  The larger model can carry a passenger on a journey through Time. - Not through Space, mind you, but through Time.
Oh, I say George!  If you start floating around in the future, aren't you likely to mess things up for the rest of us?
The future is already there.  It's irrevocable and cannot be changed.
That's the most important question to which I hope to find an answer. Can Man control his destiny?  Can he change the shape of things to come?
Imagine that this cigar is the Time Traveller.  Now, this lever in front of him controls movement.  Forward pressure sends the Machine into the future, backward pressure into the past.  And the harder the pressure the faster the Machine travels.
This experiment can be performed only once.  If it succeeds, I lose my model forever.  That is why I need witnesses.
Go ahead.
You're ready then?
Doctor Hillyer, would you care to lend me your hand?
Where did it go?
Go?  Nowhere in the usual sense. It's still here. (indicating space where the Machine stood) But it's no longer in the present. It's traveling through time - to the future, to be precise.
Do you seriously expect us to believe that?
Certainly.
But you just said it hasn't really moved.
That's correct.
Then why can't we see it?
Because we're in this room on December 31st, 1899, while the model you saw is perhaps a hundred years away.  This room, or even this house, may no longer exist a hundred years from now.  But the Time Machine is occupying the same space it did a moment before it went off on its journey.
If it occupies the same space, I should be able to feel it.
You must remember that the space you've just put your hand through is today's space.  You can't put your hand into the space of tomorrow.
Space is space!  It doesn't change! The same space that is here now should be here a hundred or even a thousand years from now.
No!  Time changes space.  This flat ground we're standing on now could have been at the bottom of the sea a million years ago.  And a million years from now it could be the interior of a huge mountain.
Suppose what you say is true. Exactly what do you suggest we do with such a contraption?
For my part, I intend to take a journey into the future. - Unless someone else prefers to volunteer.
I say, George.  Suppose you go off and get lost in the fiftieth century! How will you find your way back?
Now listen, George!  I don't know what you take us for, but we're not fools.  There are a number of ways of doing a disappearing trick!  But a man of your ability should not bother with such nonsense.
slightly, and then) I think Dr. Hillyer has a point, George.
Now you're being sensible.  I'll take care of it first thing in the New Year.
Well, time to go.
Yes, we all have our plans for tonight.
Are you all right, George?
Of course, I am.
Coming, Bridewell?
Thanks for coming.
Happy New Year. - Goodbye, George - Happy Twentieth Century. - Etc.
Come on, Bridewell.
I thought I'd better stay.
You needn't have troubled yourself. I'm all right.
No you're not. - You've been behaving oddly for over a month now.  I'm not leaving until you tell me what's on your mind.
I appreciate your gesture, David, but if you don't mind I'd rather you left me alone.
You have changed, George. Enormously.
I'm sorry.
I'll try.
Why this preoccupation with Time?
Why not?
Don't go simple on me, George!
I quite agree with you.  But here we are and we have to make the best of it.
You may have to.  I don't.
I prefer the future.
You're not seriously saying you can do it?
You saw the experiment this afternoon, didn't you?
I saw a toy machine vanish.  But I'm certain there are a number of ways of doing that trick.  Any magician at the Hippodrome could probably do it.
It was no trick! - Would you care to see the full-scale model?
No, I would not!  I have no desire to tempt the laws of Providence and I don't think you should.  It's not for man to trifle with.
Now you sound like Hillyer and Kemp.
There is something in their common sense attitude to life.  George, I speak to you as a friend. More, as a brother.  If that machine can do what you say it can...destroy it.  Destroy it, George, before it destroys you.
You must have plans for New Year's Eve.  Don't let me keep you.
Mary isn't well.  We decided to stay home with the baby.  But why don't you come home with me.  You haven't seen little Jaime for a long time.
I can't.
What's stopping you?
I just want to see the old century out by myself.
Have it your own way.
Will you promise me that you won't leave the house tonight?
I promise you, I won't walk out of the door.
David!  Please don't think me un- friendly! - Come over to dinner - next Friday.  Won't you?
Very well.
Fine...and will you bring the others with you?
Whatever you say, George. - Happy New Year.
And a very happy New Year to you, David.
Will you be having supper in this evening, sir?
I don't think so, Mrs. Watchett.  Why don't you take the evening off and celebrate.
Thank you, sir, but if you won't be needing me I think I'll turn in early and get some sleep...  ...it I can. - Goodnight, sir.
Goodnight.
Oh, Mrs. Watchett!  I've invited Mr. Filby and the others to dinner next Friday.  Happy New Year, Mrs. Watchett.
Happy New Year, sir.
I started...and the laboratory grew faint around me...
...I stopped.
No change; everything exactly as it bad been before. - But no!
The clock said 9:31 when I started and now it was 11:O9...and the candle, shorter by inches.
And yet by my watch which was in the machine with me, only a few seconds had passed.
It was disconcerting to see the sun...
...arc in less than a minute...
....to see flowers closing their eyes for the night, changes that normally took hours, occuring in seconds, was beautiful.
And as yet I was travelling very slowly!  What if I went faster?!
It became intoxicating.  To see an entire storm in a few seconds. - So I pushed the lever on toward even greater speed.
Thirteen years had passed...fourteen... fifteen...sixteen...and then...
In the year nineteen hundred seventeen... I stopped.
Going to a masquerade, David?  You look rather silly without your moustache, old man!
Were you addressing me, sir?
 Filby!  I expected more of an enthusiastic greeting from...
Was?
Were you a friend of father's?
Yes...yes...I've been away.
He was killed in the war...a year ago.
No!...it can't be... (then, as he realizes its truth) I'm sorry to hear that. (pause, then hesitantly points) And the gentleman who used to live across the street?
Oh, him.  Some inventor who disappeared around the turn of the century. - If you're interested in that house, forget it.  You can't buy it or even go inside.
Why is that?
My father was executor of the inventor's estate and he refused to liquidate it.  I often chided him on that account, but he felt positive that the owner would return some day. - Some people hereabouts think it's haunted. (stares at Time Traveller curiously, studying the strange cut of his clothes) Who are you, sir?
Just a stranger who once knew your father.
I see. (still curious at the Time Traveller's abstract attitude) Have you been at the front, sir?
Front?  What front?
Why the war, of course.
What war?
Great heavens, man, don't you know we've been at war with Germany since nineteen fourteen?  I thought perhaps you had seen action in France...or maybe... (noticing confusion, adds with a note of compassion) Perhaps a cup of tea would make you feel better.  Won't you come in?
No...no, thank you.
You're sure you're alright, sir?
Yes, I'm quite alright.
Then...goodbye, sir.
Goodbye, Jaime.
As I went along, I gained experience in handling the Machine.  I found that I could stop for a day, an hour, or even for a second to observe, then go ahead for a year or two. - Thus I was able to see the changing world in a series of glimpses.
Good heavens, that's a dress?
This was intriguing.  I wondered just how far women would permit this to go.
I began to grow fond of that mannequin.  Maybe because, like me, she didn't age.
Suddenly, in nineteen forty I began to be buffeted from side to side. My first thought was that the Machine had a mechanical defect or a part had worn out.
The last time I had stopped was in nineteen seventeen, twenty three years ago.  And the war with Germany was still waging - now in the air with flying machines.  It didn't seem possible they could go on fighting all these years and still have the means of fighting.  Then I realized the truth of the matter.  This was a new war.  There must have been an interval of peace in between these wars.  Yet they had learned nothing but to prepare even more effective means of destroying one another.  I decided to push on into time and see the outcome.
The fighting in the sky lasted only a few moments.  By nineteen forty five it was over, but I continued on a few more years before pausing for another glimpse of my silent, never aging friend.
It vas reassuring to find that she hadn't changed.  Only her costume. Provocative to say the least.  I wondered what she would look like ten years hence.
At first I wondered if my Machine and I were the cause of the panic.  I was to soon find out we weren't.
 I can't understand you.
 Confounded radio in this thing. Makes more noise than it does sense.
 Filby!
My name is Mister Filby. - Didn't you hear the air raid siren?
You mean that horrible screeching?
It wasn't constructed for its aesthetic values, you know, but to warn silly young fools like yourself to get down into the shelter.  Now go on.
But I'm perfectly comfortable and I find your store magnificent.  What splendid achievements, what gigantic strides mankind has taken, what...
 Come on, young man.  We'd better be going before the mushrooms start sprouting. (looks at Time Traveller with renewed interest) You do look familiar.  Haven't we met somewhere before?
Indeed we have.  Right here.  Many years ago.
I was sure of that, but the exact time escapes me.
It was two wars ago, I believe. Nineteen seventeen.
Why now I recall.  The chap who inquired about my father -- and the house that used to be across the way. (stops and stares at the Time Traveller) But no...that's impossible.  You haven't changed.  You're not a day older.  And your clothes...
I'm afraid it's going to take me a little time to explain... You see...
The last alert...hurry!
Listen to me!  It's important.
Look!  An atomic satellite zeroing in!  That's important!!
Hurry!  Hide 'til the All Clear!
All clear?  I've got to talk to you.
The labor of centuries gone in an instant.
But then Mother Earth, aroused by man's violence, responded with volcanic violence or her own!
Then I saw my own danger.  I too was to be engulfed!
But to go back was unthinkable.
Only my speed through time saved me from being roasted alive and encased in stone forever.
The molten rock cooled. (he closes his burning eyes as the last of the light vanishes) I prayed...wondering how many centuries, how many eons must pass before the wind and rain could wear away the mountain that enclosed me.
 Darkness...darkness for centuries.
I wondered if there was still war being waged on the ground above me... if man would still exist on earth, when I saw the sun again.
The centuries rolled by. - I put my trust in time and waited for the rock to wear down around me.
I was free again!
Thousands of centuries passed, but the earth stayed green!  There was no winter!  No wars! - Had man finally learned to control both the elements and themselves? - I had to stop and find out.
At last I've found a Paradise.
Nature tamed completely and more bountiful than ever before.
Flowers everywhere...the whole landscape one vast garden with no sign of weeds or briars.
 Unrepaired for centuries!  Maybe unlived in for as long.  It would be no Paradise if it belonged to me alone.
Anyone here?
...to bask in the sunlight, bathe in the clear streams and eat the fruits of earth with all knowledge of work and hardship forgotten.
Well, and why not?
Help her!...
Are you all right?
Why did you?
Why did I what?
Come after me.
I did it to save your life, young lady, which I'm afraid doesn't hold much meaning for you or anyone else.
It doesn't.
Must have been fifty of your friends watching you drown.  Not one of them so much as lifted a finger. -  A curious attitude - in a curious world. (a pause, then a smile) Aren't you the least bit interested in what I am...where I come from?
Should I be?
Perhaps you'd better take me to someone a bit older I can talk to.
There is no one older.
Doesn't anyone age in this land of yours?
What's your name?
Weena.
How do you spell that?
Spell?
Write!  - Can't you write?  Look!
And what are your people called?
Eloi.
Come.  We must go in.
Why?  What's wrong?
It is getting dark.
I don't mind telling you, I'm quite hungry.  I've come a long, long way.
In my time a berry this size would have made news in every civilized country.
Sir, perhaps curiosity has died. Perhaps even courtesy has died, but I have come a long way and there are things I would like to know.
Because I shall return to my time and they will ask questions such as what kind of government rules your world.
How do you get your food and clothing?
Doesn't anyone work?
But it must be planted, cultivated, nurtured...unless... (with mistaken insight as he observes no reaction to this last query) Unless you have an economy so well organized that you can devote all your time to study and experimentation. Am I right?
Yes!  And I'm not ashamed of it. That is how man has learned and bettered himself.  I must learn about you and your civilization.  You have books, don't you?
Books will tell me what I want to know.  Books will tell me all about you.
Yes...they do tell me all about you!
What have you done?  Thousands of years of building and rebuilding creating and re-creating so that you can let it crumble to dust.
A million yesterdays of sensitive men dying for their dreams.  For what?  So you can swim and dance and play.
I am returning to my time!  Not to tell of the uselessness of the struggle - not to tell of the hopeless future - but only so that I can die among men!
I heard you pounding...I came to tell you...
How do you open that panel?
No one opens it.  Only the Morlocks.
Morlocks? - Who are the Morlocks?
Why are you afraid of the Morlocks?
Tell me.
When they call, we must go below.
Do the Morlocks live beneath the earth?  Why must you obey their command?
They give us the food we eat, the clothes we wear.  We must do as they command.
What happens to your people when they go below?
It is night.
Only children are frightened by the dark. - But then you are a child, aren't you? (Weena glances around warily into the shadows, her anxiety mounting) I'll build a fire.
No, you must not.
Where are you from?
 I hoped to learn a great deal.  I hoped to take back the knowledge, the advancement, mankind made... instead what do I find?  Vegetables!
The human race reduced to living vegetables!
Get me a few more twigs.
 What was it?
Morlocks.
I never saw it before.
 Do you know that the first thing which separated man from the rest of the mammals was his knowledge of fire?  No, I suppose you don't.  The next great stride came with the discovery of the wheel.  Do you know what that is?  I'm sorry I was angry with your people.  I had no right to be. No more than if I had visited the Island of Bali in my own time. You were safe inside your great house, yet you came out into the night to warn me.  The one characteristic which distinguished man from the animal kingdom was the spirit of self sacrifice.  You have that quality, Girl.  I'm sure all of your people have it.  All it requires is someone to reawaken it. I shall try if you'll let me.  Will you?
I do not understand you, but I believe you.
That's a good start. - Now try to tell me...who or what are the Morlocks?  Are they people or animals?  What do you know about yourself?  The past?  Don't your people ever speak of the past?
There is no past.
Don't you ever wonder about the future?
There is no future.
Man's past is mainly a grim struggle for survival, but there have been moments when a few voices have spoken up.  These rare moments have made the history of man a glorious thing.  I refuse to believe it is dead and gone. We've had our dark ages before and this is only another of them.  All you need is for someone to show you the way out. - I'm only a tinkering mechanic, but there must be this hidden spark in one of your people. If I can only kindle that spark, my coming here will have some meaning.
My efforts next morning to open the panel were fruitless.  I had to find another way to retrieve my Machine.
Listen!  Do you hear?
Yes.
Machines!
No...Morlocks.
 You mean those animals run machines?
They are Morlocks.
 I know, but have you seen the machines?
No, only heard of them.
Who told you?
The talking rings.
 What sort of rings?
 Rings that talk.
Can you show me these rings?
 Are these the talking rings?
Yes.
They speak?
Yes.
Of what?
Things no one here understands.
How do you get it to talk?
From the talking rings I learned how the human race divided itself and how the world of the Eloi and Morlocks began.
By some quirk of fate the Morlocks had become the masters and the Eloi their servants.  The Morlocks main- tained them and bred them like cattle only to take them below when they reached maturity, which explained why there were no older people along them.
Now I knew I must go below.  It was the only means of finding a way up into the sphinx to reach my Machine and to find out what happened to the little people when they went below.
No...don't go...please.
You will not come back.
I'll be back.
Weena!  Where are you, Girl?
What's happening?  Tell me!
Weena!
Weena!
Stop!
What are you running from?
What do you mean, all clear?
But you didn't listen.  You didn't learn anything.  All that is left is fear...a blind animal fear. Ages ago men were taught to hide in the ground when the sirens blew... taught to run from a raining death... but those men are dead!  And so are the men who slaughtered them.  Don't you understand?  You are slaves of a dead past... You don't even own your souls.  You're led to slaughter like sheep!
What about those who went below? How are they to come back?
You can try.  Won't any of you even try?
So, this was the destiny of the Eloi.
 They were being bred like cattle by the Morlocks who had degenerated into the lowest form of human life...cannibalism.
Weena!
 Girl! (he turns and grasps the passing Young Man) Come to your senses!  All of you!
Burn, will you!
Quick, something to burn!  It's my last match!
Weena!  Weena, get the torch!
Weena!  Go on!  Go on the steps!
 The underworld of the Morlocks was gone...and so was the life of leisure for the Eloi.
From now on they would have to work to survive.  And looking at their faces, I somehow knew that they could start over again.
Another night was coming, but this night no Eloi needed to fear.
But what of me? - I was imprisoned in a world in which I did not belong.
Are you sorry?
Sorry? - Sorry for what?
That you have to stay.
 Yes. - I am sorry because I could tell so much to the people of my own time... I could tell them about the happiness and sorrow the future has in store for them.  They could learn from it...or would they?
You don't want to stay, do you?
It isn't that, but I don't fit here anymore than you would in my time.
 I would like to see your time.
No, Girl, you wouldn't be very happy there.
Do you have someone like me - there?
No.  No one like you.  But there are friends who will miss me. - As a matter of fact, I'm probably late already.
 Women?
No, men.  There is a woman too, of course! (noticing her disappointment, he relents) She looks after my house for me. She is sixty-two years old. - Much older than you are.
 How do they wear their hair?
Who?
The women in your time.
 Up!
Up? - How?
 Like this.
Show me.
 Would I be pretty?
 Yes...you would be.  More than pretty.  I wish we could go back together, Weena, back to my own time...or to times before that when the world was young.  We could...
It is ridiculous!  Simply preposterous!
Well, there's one thing I'll say for you, George.  You always could tell a good story.  Best adventure yarn I've heard for years.  You're a truly fine inventor, George!
I'll turn down your bed for you!
Truthfully, where have you been for the past week?
 Now, we shouldn't ask such questions, Walter.  It's not hard for a man to lose a week now and then.
I understand your doubt.  Take it as a lie if you wish.  Now that I'm back I scarcely believe it myself.  Except that...  ...here are the flowers Weena gave me.
A present for you, David.
You were always interested in botany. - Try to match them with any species known today.
I don't think I can.
Are you coming, Kemp.
It's getting late and you look exhausted.  You had better get some rest.
Goodnight, George.
Thank you, David, for being such a good friend - always.
What do you think, Filby?
One thing is certain.  Those flowers couldn't have possibly bloomed in the winter-time.
You don't really think that story was true?
Look, you chaps go on.  It's just a short walk home for me.
Go on, driver!
George!...
He's gone!
I think I understand. - Look!
See the imprint?  This is where the Time Machine originally stood. (he paces across to the end of the grooves) But the Morlocks moved it. They dragged it across the lawn right into the sphinx...right here.  And Weena was standing there when he last saw her...the same space - in a different time. - So he moved back his heavy Machine from here, across the room, scratching this floor... (indicating the grooves that lead to the imprint) So that he can appear outside the sphinx again and help the Eloi build a new world...and build a new world of his own.
But it isn't like George. - To return empty handed.  To try to rebuild a civilization without a plan.  He must have taken something with him.
Nothing.
Nothing except three books.
Which three books?
I don't know. -- Is it important?
No, I suppose not. - Only...what three books would you have taken?
Mr. Filby, do you think he will ever return?
One cannot choose but wonder. - You see...he has all the time in the world!
