She's a beauty. BB  Who?
What? BB Who's the beauty? SALESMAN The car. BB I thought maybe you saw some chick walking by. I lost my concentration. Why do they call cars 'she'? They never say 'he'... always 'she.' The Salesman shrugs his shoulders.      BB walks around the Cadillac. BB Very nice... very nice.
You're a sick man! Sick! Do ya hear me?! Do ya hear me?! 
Now don't try to hustle me here ... you know what I mean. I hate being hustled. Give me an honest price, not one of your 'special' deals... give me an honest price. Do I make myself clear? SALESMAN Now, how much are you willing to pay? BB There ya go... there ya go... you're doing it... you're doing one of those hustle numbers. 
You're being unreasonable.     You don't even want to listen. TILLEY I don't know what I did... I got no idea. If it's my fault, I'm sorry... I'm sorry. I can do no better than that. A full unconditional apology. Tilley walks down the steps of the house and goes to his car -- a Cadillac. He gets inside, STARTS the ENGINE and pulls away. Nora remains on the porch watching the car ... one lonely figure in a neighborhood of hundreds of duplicate houses. CUT TO:
She's gonna drive me to my grave... I'm headed to my grave... the woman's driving me insane... it's not supposed to happen this way. He starts moving his head -- stretching his neck from right to left. TILLEY It's not even eleven o'clock and my neck is stiffening up. He juts his jaw out. TILLEY My neck's tight... it's tight. CUT TO:
Are you a lunatic? Can't you see I'm trying to back out of this lot? There's a red light, you shoulda stopped. TILLEY Me? What are you, crazy? You just want to back into the middle of the street like that. A man's just driving along and you back into the middle of the street. What kind of driving is that? What kind of driving? 
You're a madman! Smashes into me, attacks me... the man is crazy! People continue to pull them apart. MAN #1 Come on now, calm down, calm down. He holds BB's arms. Another MAN grabs for Tilley and tries to pull him off BB. MAN #2 Take it easy... take it easy... 
BB Car only has one sixteenth of a mile, and I've been hit. He turns back and looks at Tilley. BB I'm gonna get even with you, you son of a bitch... I'm gonna get even with you. This is no ordinary traffic accident. TILLEY You want to drive a Cadillac, learn how to drive. You want to get even with somebody? You picked the wrong person to get even with. Nobody backs into traffic, smashes my car and says they want to get even. I'm gonna get even! CUT TO:
Did ya see 'Bonanza' last night? Can you tell me why Ben Cartwright had a colored guy stay over? 
It's the fact the Ben Cartwright's on the Ponderosa... he's in the middle of nowhere. It's not like he's living on Reisterstown Road with houses all around... we're talking about the West here. It's the idea that a strange guy comes to the door in the middle of the West. It doesn't make sense, that's all I'm saying. MOUSE Come on... you're a bigot, that's what you are. 
Florence, eggs and the toast, the way I like it. FLORENCE, who doesn't have too much energy, calls back to Tilley. FLORENCE Not too gooey.     Coffee right away. She trails the last word. Sam is still talking about his problem with "Bonanza."
I just don't believe that 'Bonanza' is an accurate description of the West. I say no more. Tilley slips into the booth next to Sam.    He indicates for Sam to give him more room. TILLEY Come on, give me a couple of more inches. SAM You want me to take my plate... I'll eat in the parking lot. 
Yeah, I got his name. The police came... God, I can't believe it... the guy's an idiot. He pulls a piece of paper from his pocket. TILLEY Yeah, here it is... some Polish name... Babowski... Bill Babowski ... fucking son of a bitch. GIL I know the guy... they call him BB. TILLEY You know the son of a bitch? GIL Yeah, he works with Bagel. TILLEY He sells aluminum siding? I don't believe it... of all the people that could run into me, it has to be a fucking tin man. How come I don't know him? GIL You musta seen him. He hangs out with Carly Benelli, Cheese ... you know, that group. TILLEY I don't know the guy. 
I'll  tell you one thing,    when I get a  hold of this guy,    I'll break  both his legs and    then he won't  dance the Marengay    too good. CUT TO:
Good morning, I represent the Superior Aluminum Siding Company. We will have a representative in your neighborhood today. Would you be interested in seeing the benefits of our aluminum product?  
... Superior Aluminum Siding Company. We will have a representative... CAMERA MOVES TO another corner of the room where we see 4 "tin men" salesmen sitting around one of the desks playing cards. MOE is beginning to tell a joke. He is a man in his 50's. MOE So the guy goes to the doctor for a physical... they do all those tests, all that stuff, blah, blah, blah... BB enters the scene and goes over and gets himself a cup of coffee. MOE ...   Doctor says 'when we get all the   information back, we'll give you   a call.' Leaves the doctor. One   day the telephone rings... the   guy goes and picks it up. CHEESE The guy? MOE (immediately aggravated) The guy! CHEESE Not the doctor? 
Up it fifty cents. LOONEY I call... I call. I'm in on this one... I call. MOE We get it, you're calling. CARLY I'm not sure. BB Stay with him. CARLY I don't know. 
They got any good pool halls around here? BB I don't know.  You know what would be fun to do..? Let's try the Life Magazine routine. MOE  Yeah. CUT TO:
BB You know, I think we've got to come over about two feet. The SCREEN SHAKES as BB moves the camera. CUT TO:
 She's at the window. MOE Yeah. BB  This is going to be terrific in Life Magazine.  Terrific in Life Magazine!  Come on outside, honey.
 This should be our single biggest issue of Life Magazine. We see the Housewife coming out of her front door. BB  Bingo! The Housewife approaches BB and Moe suspiciously. HOUSEWIFE Excuse me.   What are you doing? 
Okay... we've got a total of thirty-seven hundred dollars. HUSBAND Thirty-seven hundred dollars? HOUSEWIFE Honey, we're gonna be in Life Magazine.
 Moe, did you call  the office and make sure we  can hold up the issue until this  job is completed? This house really  could be a showcase. HUSBAND Thirty-seven hundred dollars! CARLY I tell you what... I've got an idea. Do you mind my guys working on a Saturday? 'Cos if my crew can work on Saturday next, that'll free my guys up on Monday. Yeah, that'll really help me out on another job. Anyway, if we can do that, I think I'll be able to knock off three hundred and fifty dollars from the job. You see, I've got an overlapping situation on Monday... I don't want to go into it. What do ya think? We got a deal? HUSBAND Yep. CUT TO:
What are the benefits of aluminum siding? One: you never have to paint. CUT TO:
... You have much greater insulation. CUT TO:
... It cuts down on your heating bills... CUT TO:
So what we've got is efficiency and the beautification of your home. CUT TO:
No, I'm sorry, Mr. Tilley, I just can't afford it. TILLEY We haven't even got to discussing terms. There are so many friendly financial arrangements that would hardly be a bite into your weekly salary. 
Randy. TILLEY Randy, right.    Well, good night. CUT TO:
I thought I had 'em... I was this close. He demonstrates with his fingers.
The amount of time you spent there, I thought you were ready to send for me to close it up. TILLEY Damn!    I thought I had 'em. Tilley STARTS the CAR and pulls out. CUT TO:
Come on, Wing, can't you do better than this... a man in my position in terms of this firm... I dunno... WING All right, I'll give you two hundred. Wing changes amount of check and hands it to Tilley. MOUSE (yelling to cocktail waitress) Honey, can you get me some Marlboros and a 7 and 7? 
Any irregularities, you know, selling a house on the pretense that it's a model house and every job sold in the area they get a kickback... the Life Magazine hustle... you guys know all the bullshit numbers we can run. SAM Jesus! What a pain in the ass. Do you think this commission's gonna stick around or is it gone with the wind? 
I wouldn't mind seeing Africa some time. BB Not me. I don't want to go where they've got snakes. MOE They've got snakes? BB I've heard they've got snakes that'll outrun a horse through the grass. They got a snake that bites you... you got eleven seconds to live. No thank you. I don't want to spend my good money to visit with that kind of jeopardy. I'd like to go to a place where... hold it! He hits the brakes suddenly. MOE What's wrong? BB backs his car halfway up the street. He stops in the driveway of the Pimlico Hotel parking lot. BB The guy who ran into me... that's his car. He puts the car into park and opens the car door. 
 Give me eight points I take the Knicks over the Lakers for 20. MOUSE It's too big a spread. We hear the    sound of BREAKING GLASS. Tilley responds to the sound.     He looks out of the glass doors and sees BB kicking in    the headlight of his car. BB runs back towards his    car. TILLEY It's that fucking lunatic again. He races out of the door of the hotel towards BB's car which pulls away and speeds down the street. Several of the tin men run after Tilley. He stands in the street watching the car disappear. TILLEY (still looking after the car) Can you believe this guy?    Is he sane or what? MOUSE Isn't that something? SAM What's he got, a gnat up his ass? What the hell's wrong with the guy? GIL Don't you recognize him from the Corral? 
 Look at you, quarter to three and home already. What happened? You and the fellas run out of things to talk about? TILLEY Please! I'm out there working myself to the bone, trying to make a living. He goes over to the refrigerator and gets himself some orange juice. NORA What's a five letter word for a Portuguese overseas province? TILLEY Try Macao. NORA M-A-C-A-O... that fits. 
It's got a lot of overhead to it. What do you do... spend your time in the bedroom and the kitchen, that's all. So why do you need a living room and a dining room. He walks over to the back door and looks out. TILLEY Why do ya need a back yard? NORA You're not selling anything? TILLEY I'm in a slump. NORA It happens.
Last year I'm number three top seller... year before, right up there. I  can't get my momentum going this year. NORA Well, you will. You always do. TILLEY  I'm not sure I like the idea of all this overhead breathing down my neck. When you have a place like this, that's a lot of overhead. 
You know, Tilley, we hardly ever do things together. TILLEY Like what? NORA Do things together that are enjoyable. TILLEY What would we do together for it to be enjoyable? NORA If we went on a picnic... it would be fun. 
I think you make a left here. Tilley turns the car. GIL Yeah... there it is... that's the place... Superior Aluminum... that's it over there. As Tilley pulls up we see BB's car parked outside of the building. TILLEY Okay, Mr. Marengay... here I come. He reaches into the backseat of the car and takes out a crowbar. GIL Hey, Tilley, don't go too wild... 
BAGEL That was a good sale, Double B. Just got a call on a loan... we're in business.
We see BAGEL. He's a little guy with a black Fedora and baggy pants held up with suspenders. BB stands with him. BAGEL This whole section has been very fertile for us. CUT TO: 
What? MOE How do you know if you can get the upper hand? How do you know if you're dealing with a guy who's in an inferior position to you, or superior position? How do you know? Moe puts Stanley on the defensive. STANLEY You just have to talk and feel your way. 
What? You got a special bargain when you bought this car? They come cheaper without windows? BB reaches into the car and picks up a handful of broken glass. He tosses it up and down in his hands. BB This guy's looking to play tit for tat. That's not my game. I'm gonna play hardball. BB throws the glass down on the ground. STANLEY  What's going on? Looney just nods for them to go, and they start to walk over to Looney's Cadillac. BB I'm gonna find    out everything about this son    of a bitch, and then I'm gonna    find the one thing that cuts him    to the quick. MOE Let's go inside... make some calls.
'Dayo!... da, da, da, da, day. Daylight come and he wanna go home...' He sings very loudly, especially on the chorus. GIL  Oh, this is going to be good. MOUSE 'Dayo!... da, da, da, da, da, da, da.' (he hits his pool cue on the ground for emphasis) 'Daylight come and he wanna go home...'
Jesus Christ! We can hear the "BANANA BOAT SONG" through the door, with MOUSE SCREECHING along with it. Sam takes the letter and goes through the door to the pool hall.
SAM Tilley. He nods for Tilley to go over to him. They start to walk together through the darkened areas of the Pool Hall. SAM Found this on your desk while I was going over some papers. He hands the letter to Tilley.
From the IRS. I never even remember seeing it. I must have left it with my other bills. I wonder what it is? SAM Maybe it's a refund check. Tilley opens the envelope and looks at the document. TILLEY Hum... says here that they haven't received my 1962 taxes. They seem to be saying that they didn't get my check for four thousand dollars. SAM What? It must be a clerical error. TILLEY I can't believe they spend all that time and energy to write to me... to single me out. SAM What are you talking about?   You didn't pay your taxes? TILLEY I probably forgot... people forget their taxes all the time... just slipped my mind... I got so many things on my mind.  
CUT TO:
 Are these any good do ya know? These TV dinners? NORA I don't think they're too good for you, not a lot of 'em anyway. She continues to choose her frozen foods.     BB continues talking to her. BB My wife died. NORA  Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. BB I'm over it now, but it was a very trying time... very trying... I've only just started eating again. 
Thanks again. He opens the door for Tilley and Tilley walks out. CUT TO:
So, what's the scoop? TILLEY We got 'em! He's very excited.
You're kidding? TILLEY Take a look at this, Sam. Tilley shows him the written contract. Written across the front of the contract in big, bold, black letters are the words: "THIS JOB IS FREE." Sam looks at Tilley. SAM Are you fucking crazy? You just gave them forty-two hundred dollars in aluminum siding free?! 
Mr. Tilley is crazy... he had a nervous breakdown. WIDEN to include Man and Wife from before. MAN What's that? SAM He's been under a lot of pressure recently... he snapped... he had a nervous breakdown... it's the saddest thing I've ever seen. Let's be honest about it, nobody gives away forty-two hundred dollars' worth of aluminum siding free. MAN I thought it was very generous, but sometimes the Lord moves in mysterious ways. 
You don't expect his boss to pick up the forty-two hundred job, do ya? MAN Hmm. SAM Yeah, it's a bad state of affairs.  Let me ask you something, sir. MAN Yes? SAM You don't think there's some way you could work with me to try and resolve this, do you?
How so? SAM Let's look at it this way, what if I can sell you this job at a wholesale price... kind of lessens the burden. The big boss won't get so angry, and maybe won't throw the guy's wife and kids out... at least they'll have a roof over their heads. MAN What kind of wholesale price are we talking about? 
The buzzard had a great gimmick. You know, when it came time to measure a job, he'd cut the yardstick and reglue it together ... he took out seven inches so his square footage would always be higher. That way he'd always make a few extra bucks on the job. 
STANLEY What else? Give me another story ... these stories are great! LOONEY Just a minute... I've got one. You know it's like the faster you can start spiking a job, the guy can't back out of the deal.  
TILLEY Fantastic, Sam! A twenty-seven hundred sale! 'This job is free'! What a beaut! I'm out of the slump! Tilley's riding high again ... Tilley's back! We ought to go and celebrate. Let's go to the Corral and have a drink... we can turn the paperwork in a little later. SAM Gil says that's where 'Marengay' hangs out.
Gil keeps saying it... I've never seen him. (laughing and hit- ting the dashboard) I'm riding high... twenty-seven hundred dollars... 'this job is free'... the man went insane... lost control of himself... his wife and children are out on the street!  Sometimes I'm brilliant... I'm fucking brilliant... I can't believe it. CUT TO:
 That one is the kind that can't live without you...  ... 'Where were you? When will you be home?' MOE I should get out of here. I told my wife I'd be home early tonight. BB Christ!    It's not even one o'clock yet.  How long you been married now? What is it? Twelve... twelve years? MOE Sixteen. BB Holy God! Sixteen years? What do you think? Is it worth it?
Yeah. BB Why do you think? MOE It's hard to answer.  Seems better than if she wasn't there. BB Quite a recommendation... can't wait to do it. He laughs. 
Look how much more complicated things are now. There used to be a time you met a girl, you courted and then you got married and lived happily ever after. Now, see that one over there... (he points to girl at a table) ... that's Helen Armstrong... maiden name used to be Tudor. Get this, she dated Charlie Rider when I was in high school, seemed like they were together forever. They broke up, she started to go with Lenny Mardigian, they got married, she's Helen Mardigian. That goes on two years... three years, something like that.  
I'm beginning to believe in God. TILLEY You were never one of those atheists, were you? SAM No, I'm not saying that, but I'm beginning to give God more thought. TILLEY So, what did you do? Have some kind of religious experience? SAM I tell ya... I took my wife for lunch yesterday... we went and had some smorgasbord, and it kind of happened. TILLEY You found God at the smorgasbord? SAM Yeah. TILLEY Sam, people have religious experiences like on a lake or when they go up into the mountains, that kind of thing. SAM Maybe... but I had mine in a smorgasbord. 
Yeah, yeah... I get the point. So? SAM So I see celery, I see the lettuce, tomatoes, cauliflower... and I think, all these things come out of the ground... they just grow out of the ground. They had corn -- out of the ground... radish -- out of the ground. You say to yourself, how can all these things come out of the ground? You know what I'm talking about? All these things are out of the ground. TILLEY  Yeah.
I mean, how can that be? It just happened that way? And I'm not even getting into the fruits... I'm just dealing with vegetables right now. With all those things coming out of the earth, there must be a God. TILLEY  I'm not getting the same religious effect that came over you. I don't know why, but I don't feel like running to a church to pray right this second. 
I don't believe it!    Mr. Banana Head is here. MOE What? BB That crazy guy that banged into my car and smashed my windows in. I don't fucking believe it! I'm gonna get him.
Come on, let's go outside... let's settle this in the parking lot. TILLEY Oh, no! You're not gonna get near my car... you're not gonna kick in my headlights again...  ... What am I talking about? I didn't even drive tonight. You wanna duke it? Let's go. They both head out the door. The other tin men follow, and others who have been paying attention to this alter- cation, also follow. CUT TO:
 What is this? What is this crowd here? We're charging admission? TILLEY Back away... give me some elbow room.
 You're a lucky man... the police showed. BB We'll see who's the lucky one. He picks up his coat and leaves with Moe. CUT TO:
NORA I love ya, Ada, and if you're smart you won't come back. The cake is being passed out, and people are talking -- it has become somewhat of a party atmosphere. Nora turns to her friend, NELLIE. NORA I've just decided... I'm going out with him. 
EMPTY_LINE
Every time I listen to Sinatra, I always remember when I used to work in Atlantic City back in the late 40's... you know, a busboy job... Sinatra used to play at the 500 Club, and we used to take our dates and say, 'Hey, you wanna go and hear Sinatra?' Then we'd just lean on the door of the club in the alley and listen to the music. I think the girls were looking for something a bit more uptown. Nora laughs. NORA I'd go with you and lean against the door. They dance for a bit and look at one another. He leans toward her, holds her tight and kisses her. Then the RECORD STICKS on the words "that's the time"... "that's the time"... "that's the time"... BB slips off one of his loafers, while still embracing Nora, kicks it so that it hits the side of the record table. The RECORD SLIPS a little and continues to play correctly. NORA  You've got a pretty good aim. BB I sure do. CUT TO:
 Yeah, he's here... just a minute.
Hey, Tilley, somebody wants ya on the phone. Tilley gets up from the table and goes over to the phone. TILLEY Yeah, this is Tilley... CUT TO:
Is this    a setup? That son of a bitch...    I bet he set me up... I thought    I got him, and he got me. That son    of a bitch! CUT TO:
CUT TO:
CUT TO:
He must have gone crazy... I don't know what happened to him... he must have found out I was with you... I don't know... I don't know what to do. She starts to cry.   She goes to hug BB. NORA Can I stay with you for a day or two? BB puts his arms around Nora. BB Sure. CUT TO:
TILLEY Ah!    Ah! He jumps back, and puts his coffee down on a desk, and wipes his hand on the back of his jacket. TILLEY What's up, Wing?
WING You lost a sale, Tilley. The Hudsons' loan didn't go through. TILLEY What do ya mean? They wouldn't clear the loan? 
Did you see the paper? TILLEY What section? WING Take a look at this. He hands the newspaper to Tilley. TILLEY  'Home Improvement Commission... Hearings begin today..." Is this McCarthyism? What are they gonna see? If there are any communists? 
MASTERS Now,  when you made your initial sales  pitch, did you indicate that  you would be giving free storm  windows with the job?
Free storm windows? MASTERS Yes. That you would provide a free set of storm windows with the sale of aluminum siding. MURRAY No, sir. I wouldn't be able to make any money if I was giving away storm windows. My cost of a storm window is somewhere like... 
The storm windows, as I can recall, was not an issue. I mentioned that I thought the storm windows would cut down on their heating bill, and that they would obviously enhance the look of the house with the aluminum siding work we were going to do. MASTERS So, you weren't dangling a free set of storm windows as a come-on to selling them the aluminum siding job? Because it says here, and I'm reading from a statement from Mr. Tabaleri... MOE  What do ya make of all this? BB It's the future, Moe... it's the future.
'It was my understanding that the storm windows were included in the price of the sale.' CUT TO:
Where do you think they're getting this information from? 
That?   Too silly-looking. BB looks at the car for a few more seconds, then goes to get into his car. BB Ever see a dealership? MOE No. BB Interesting. They get in the car and drive off. CUT TO:
Sitting at a table. Sam is studying the racing form, Tilley is studying the menu. 
 So, what do ya think? TILLEY I think I'll take some meatloaf. WAITER  Meatloaf. TILLEY No, I think I'll have some fish. No, no... fish doesn't fill you up. Meatloaf. He closes the menu. WAITER So, it's meatloaf?
 What do you think, 'Sally's pride' in the second?  Get me a Bloody Mary. WAITER  Anything other than the Bloody Mary? TILLEY  What number is Sally's Pride? 
Mr. Motor. TILLEY Then that's it, I'm going with one. SAM Tilley, this is insane. You're picking horses because you think you're clairvoyant or something. TILLEY Sam, I'm  not doing too well by checking  the stats, so why not. I put my  hand to my forehead, I see a one  -- Mr. Motor in the second...  twenty bucks. They both look toward the track, the horses race to the finish line. Number nine streaks across the finish line.
Hallihan's Daughter. TILLEY  I got it... I got it... He picks up the racing form. TILLEY Three to one... hundred and sixty smackers.  Hand to the forehead! Hand to the forehead! 
Wing paid a hundred on number five, he loses, I got hundred and forty... next race I'll lay down the bet.  What you taking in this   race? SAM Thrifty's Delight -- number four -- 20 bucks. TILLEY You take Thrifty's Delight -- 20 bucks, I got 20 on Mr. Motor, Wing's got a hundred on Night Fire. What's the odds on Night Fire? SAM Twenty to one. TILLEY I don't see Night Fire winning. Fuck it, I'm not gonna even place the bet... I just made a hundred bucks. SAM What are you, crazy?   What happens if he wins? TILLEY He's not gonna win... I feel it. 
BB is behind the wheel, Moe is beside him in the passenger seat. BB I tell you something, she's getting on my nerves. MOE Who, Nora? BB Yeah, yeah... who else is it gonna be... 'who, Nora"!... who else is there?  The whole idea of being with a girl on consecutive nights is new to me. It's one thing when they're with you for a night, but when they live with ya, it's stretching the point. They got a lot of things they bring with them... you go to the bathroom you see 'things' you never saw before. MOE So, what's the todo? 
All this 'cos I'm trying to get even with some guy.  You know what? I think I got to see her and put an end to this. CUT TO:
I'm glad you stopped by.     This is a real surprise. BB Listen, I got a problem. NORA Oh.    How can I help? BB Um... er... (realizing    that she didn't quite get    the point) Well, the problem    is... like... is like... eh, you    know... you're the problem. 
Things? BB You know, like things that come up... stuff... like... you know, annoyances. NORA Annoyances? BB Hard to explain... very hard. NORA Well, try. BB As an example... I came home last night, I get undressed, and I realize you're sleeping on my side of the bed. I've always slept on that side... it's something I've always done. NORA Then why didn't you just nudge me a bit and tell me to go and sleep on the other side? BB I didn't want to wake you up... I thought you might think it was kind of stupid or something. NORA Well, that's easily changed. 
I can't get away from work. BB I know. He goes to walk away, then turns back and gives her a quick kiss. He turns and walks away. Nora watches him as he walks by the rows and rows of secretaries and clerks. CUT TO:
TILLEY Thirty-to-one... a hundred bucks on you, number eight. There's a guy up here who put a hundred on ya. Come on... come on... come on, baby... come on, baby!
CUT TO:
Nooooooo! 
 Way to go... Southern Belle. Moe tears up his ticket. BB Should have bet with me, Moe. CUT TO:
 Very nice! TILLEY That was your horse, Wing?
Yeah... Southern Belle. You oughta know, you bet her for me. TILLEY Of course. Wing goes to look at form. WING  I'm gonna go with the favorite in this one -- Fordnee Lane.  
Am I trying to shirk my responsibility? That's not the way I see it... it was a fluke, a crazy thing that happened, but I stand behind my honor on this... put it on my tab. WING  What  the hell is wrong with him? What  the hell is wrong with him? He's  stealing money from me... what  the hell is wrong with him? Can  you tell me? 
SAM Why didn't you at least give him the six hundred that you pocketed from the six races he lost?
Fuck him! It's on my tab. At least I've got six hundred in my pocket right now. It's like another loan. Sam, you got to think about today. Today, I got six hundred bucks in my pocket. You know what I'm saying? SAM Yeah. 
 Hey, Mr. Marengay went to the track! BB Did you bother to bet, or did you just hand your money to the tellers? TILLEY  The sarcasm's killing me.  I thought you were looking to get even. BB Who's your accountant, mister, 'cos I think you're down in the debit side.
Who's stuck with my wife.   You or me? He laughs. BB You want me to believe that you were setting me up with your wife as some kind of decoy? TILLEY Decoy is the word! There's a long beat as the two guys eye one another. Then, almost in a soft apologetic manner, BB speaks. 
BB, I think you're getting a little humility in your blood.
If getting Nora is part of losing, Thank God I didn't win. CUT TO:
This is good, Stan... nice work. Stanley nods.
Fossey says it should go down very well with the city council. Could help us appropriate more funds. This goes a long way to establish our credibility in what we're trying to do. We hear a LOUD, SAWING noise and HAMMERING echoing through the warehouse throughout this scene. STANLEY There's a lot more where this came from. MASTERS You know what I think you should do now. Why don't you pull some files... some files that were completed, others that went unsold, and I'll have somebody run it down, talk to the customers and get some statements. STANLEY Pulling files is another thing. That might not be easy. MASTERS To sneak a few here and there when you can. STANLEY I'll see. MASTERS I think that might be good. CUT TO:
What do you think if we made this one of our factory showcase houses? MAN What's that? BB It's a good location... get a lot of traffic on this street. CUT TO:
What does that mean, Mr. Gable? MOE You know what I do, Alan? I pick certain houses that are strategically located, we put up the aluminum siding, and for every referral, for every person who sees this quality job that we do... sees how beautiful it is... I give you two hundred dollars. SHUBNER Two hundred dollars? MOE That's right. God knows how many homes we could sell by people passing this house. It's perfectly placed for that. (taking out his wallet) Alan, this is how confident I feel that this house will drum up business for me. He peels off four hundred dollars and hands the money to Shubner. 
I finally got hold of May... she was over your sister's. MOE  Oh, I forgot. BB She'll be down here shortly. 
Goddamn it, BB! Did you sign them? BB Don't worry... don't worry.     I'll take care of it tomorrow. MOE Goddamn, my chest hurts.  I always taught you, BB, never walk out of a place without a signed contract. Somebody's word ain't spit. BB They'll sign, Moe.    Don't worry, they'll sign.
This is kind of   new to me, but I thought I better   call and tell you I'm gonna be   late... maybe two or three. I    never had anyone there to   call before, but I thought I   should call, you know. 
Well, I hope he's okay.  I'll see you when you get in. She gives BB a kiss on the phone. BB (looks at the receiver) Yeah. He hangs up the phone and walks to a room opposite. He opens the door and stands in the doorway looking at Moe who is lying beneath an oxygen tent. CUT TO:
French toast?    He had more than French toast. MOUSE Yes, but not a lot more. We hear further RAPPING on the window. TILLEY I don't give a damn... it's split five ways. 
Was not long ago you never would have seen a woman in here. NORA You don't have to tell me. How many nights did you drop me off and come up here all the time? TILLEY I know. I was just trying to be congenial... you know, start a conversation off, on a nice kind of light level, you know. So, what's the scoop, Nora? NORA Well you know, I think we really should get divorced. TILLEY Makes sense.   You want some more coffee? NORA Yeah, I'll have some. TILLEY (shouting to waitress) Florence, some coffee here.  It's for the best.  You know, we were kind of fooling ourselves, weren't we? 
Yeah, I like him. TILLEY All in all I guess it'll all work out for the best. NORA I'm glad you feel that way. TILLEY Yeah, can you figure it out? A guy bangs into my car, thinks I did him in, tries to get even with me by stealing my wife, you two people fall in love... can you figure that out? NORA What?
You telling me you didn't know this was the guy? NORA This was that guy? TILLEY Yeah, I told you I ran into another tin man. NORA He didn't tell me he was a tin man... he told me he sold baby pictures. 
Good afternoon, this is Superior Aluminum Siding. We're going to have... GIRL #2 ... a salesman in your area today... BB is sitting in a chair across from Looney. LOONEY Beeb, why don't you let Stanley work with you. I'm off to Florida at the end of the week for some sun and fun. Let Stanley work with you, and when I get back, we'll see how Moe's doing. BB I don't know. To be honest with you, I think I'd rather work alone ... he's too green. Is he a pain in the ass? LOONEY No. He don't talk much; he's a good listener, so he can't really get on your nerves. He's a lousy pool player and he can't play cards for shit, but... BB  So what good is he? 
What are you, crazy?! Nora drives the car forward and then backwards again almost running BB down. She rolls down the window (auto- matically) so that she can yell. NORA You're a goddamn tin man! Then she backs the car up.      BB tries to go around the front of the car. BB Wait a minute!     Wait a minute! Nora starts to move the car towards him. He moves away, and her car smashes into the side of his car. She presses the button to the window and rolls it down just a shade. NORA You wanted to win me just to get even with my husband... screw you! She rolls up the window, floors the car, and drives away. 
No, it's his wife. LOONEY There's some kind of sickness that runs in that family. CUT TO:
'Day-O! da,da,da,da,day... daylight come and he wanna go home...'
Come on, Beeb, let's dance. BB Not tonight, Ruthie, my dancing shoes are on holiday. RUTHIE You sure? 
Harry Apel... Dandy Flynn... those guys had good lines, but they burned themselves out too fast. Best? Moe's the best... the best there ever was. If he's in the door, he's got a sale. The best closer ever. STANLEY What's some of the hustles he used to pull? BB downs another shot glass of whisky. BB God damn Nora... God damn Nora! I'm trying to adjust... I'm putting up with things I never put up with in my life. I mean, give me a break... give me a break, woman. Stanely wants to get back to the topic of best tin man. STANLEY  So, what are a couple of things you and Moe have done? BB (still on the subject of Nora) It was getting to be real pleasant ... figure that.  More than pleasant. To hell with her! 
TILLEY They got no right. You know what I'm saying, Sam? They've got no right. Tilley takes a drink from a pint of whisky he has open. 
He ain't here. He gets out of the car and looks around the street some more. He stumbles up to a couple of parked cars, look- ing for Nora's car. He falls into some trash cans in front of the house. CUT TO:
TILLEY  You   want to rob my God damn house? I'm   gonna make it easy for you. (unlocks the door and leaves it ajar) Come   and rob Tilley... come on... take   everything he's got. CUT TO:
 You're a sick man! You smash my car, you steal my wife, and now you come to rob me! You're one demented human being. BB tries to focus on Tilley. TILLEY I'm going to call the police and send you to jail... but I'm going to humiliate you first. Tilley throws an egg at BB and hits him in the head.     BB is groggy and confused and still drunk. BB What're you doing? TILLEY What do ya want to break into my house for? This ain't the fucking Rockefeller mansion! There ain't thirty-eight television sets here.  
You're the craziest human being on the face of this earth! Tilley, getting ready with another egg. TILLEY What else do you want from me? Huh? What else?! I've got enough problems with the I.R.S. busting my balls and the Home Improvement Commission bullshit to contend with. I don't need aggravation from you. BB (still trying to get up; wiping his face) Nobody does this to me and lives! Nobody!
 How do ya like your eggs? Over easy?  Side of tomatoes? He throws a tomato. BB You're going to rue the day you ran into my car. This ain't the end... this is just the beginning. Tilley throws another egg. CUT TO:
A guy breaks into my house and I'm being charged with assault? It makes no sense... POLICE OFFICER  Let's get it down right. The guy broke into your house, you hit him in the head with a gun, went to the refrigerator, took out eggs and tomatoes and threw them at him. TILLEY I was defending myself... he was stealing from me. POLICE OFFICER It doesn't sound like defense to me. TILLEY I wanted to humiliate the guy. Here I am, out busting my ass all day making a decent living, I come home, and some schmuck is trying to steal from me. POLICE OFFICER So you hit him with a gun, and pelted him with eggs and tomatoes?
If I had some soup I would have thrown soup at him... is there any law you can't throw eggs? POLICE OFFICER Mr. Babowski claims he didn't break into your house. TILLEY What did I do? Invite him in so that I could throw eggs at him? 
 I can't believe it, the man throws eggs at me and now I'm gonna have breakfast with him. BAGEL His partner says maybe the two of you can sit down and come to some kind of settlement. CUT TO:
TILLEY What am I supposed to say to him? The man has been a pain in the ass since the day he rammed into my car. 
as they start to pull out of the parking lot. CUT TO:
If I'm going to order, at least I ought to be content with my food. BB I'm getting a little hungry... I've got a headache as it is. Just order some eggs so some other people can have something to eat before the lunch trade comes in. TILLEY  Why do I need a guy telling me what I should or shouldn't eat? 
 French toast and a cup of coffee. TILLEY  Sam, this guy gets on my nerves... from day one! I knew it then and I know it now. Tilley stands up from the table and starts to leave. BB I'm back to pressing charges against you! Tilley turns and is face-to-face with BB. TILLEY You want to play that way? This game ain't over, mister... it ain't over... 
I can't stand it any longer. You're driving me out of my mind. BB lunges for Tilley across the table, Sam and Bagel try to intervene -- the Waitress doesn't know what to do. BAGEL Come on, guys... take it easy... take it easy. TILLEY Get the people with the straitjackets... this man is out of control. Tilley and BB pull at one another. BB We're gonna finish it... we're gonna finish it.
 Come on, let's get out of here. Sam ushers Tilley to the door. TILLEY I'm not finished with him, Sam.  You heard me... I'm not finished with you, mister. 
Moe, when you decided to marry May, how did you know? MOE Know what? BB How did ya know? MOE You mean to make up my mind to marry her? BB Yeah.     How did ya know?
 This Nora is a pain in the ass, Moe... a pain in the ass. It's worse now than when she used to be around. Moe smiles. BB You wanna hear something? The other night at the Corral Club, I turned down a dance. 
You know, when I saw 'Bonanza' the other day, something occurred to me. There's those three guys living on the Ponderosa and you never hear them say anything about wanting to get laid. You never hear Hoss turn to Little Joe and say 'I had such a hard-on when I woke up this morning.' You know ... they never talk about broads ... nothing. Ya never hear Little Joe say 'Hey, Hoss, I went into Virginia City and saw a girl with the greatest ass I ever saw in my life.' Ya just see 'em walking around the Ponderosa saying, 'Yes, Pa,' and 'Where's Little Joe?' Nothing about broads. I don't think I'm being too picky... at least once if they talked about getting horny. I don't care if you're living on the Ponderosa or right here in Baltimore, guys talk about getting laid.  I'm beginning to think that show doesn't have too much realism. What do you think, Tilley? TILLEY Sam, I can't concentrate on 'Bonanza' shit...  
TILLEY  God, if you're responsible for all the stuff down here, maybe you got a moment's attention for me.  Between the I.R.S., this Home Improvement Commission and Mr. Marengay, I got it up to here with this bullshit. To be frank with you, I'm in the toilet here. If you can see your way...
Nora Tilley, please. We hear a WOMAN'S VOICE on the other end of the phone. WOMAN What department is she with? BB She's with Social Security. WOMAN Which department is Social Security? BB I dunno... she's there somewhere ... yeah, on the third floor... she's got a desk towards the back. WOMAN Just a moment... checking. ANOTHER ANGLE In the b.g. Stanley has gone over to a filing cabinet and is starting to look through the files. Cheese wanders over to him. CHEESE Stanley, can I help you look for something? STANLEY No, I'm just making myself busy. CHEESE Well, I wouldn't do that. Bagel don't like nobody looking at the files. 
MASTERS (into microphone to Tilley & Sam) Didn't you approach Mr. Boloshevski August 18, 1961, while he was cutting his front lawn and tell him that his house had been selected, as one of only 16 homes in the state of Maryland, for a free aluminum siding job? TILLEY What's the name again?
Boloshevski. TILLEY Doesn't ring a bell.  Sam, does it ring a bell to you? SAM  It doesn't ring a bell to me either, sir. MASTERS Didn't you suggest that for a nominal labor charge, he would receive over five thousand dollars' worth of aluminum siding? 
 We beat 'em, Sam... we beat 'em! What a piece of cake! No problem! They ain't got nothing on us... clean as a whistle... we're clean as a whistle! SAM I need a drink. I hate inquisitions. CUT TO:
 I don't want to see you anymore. She pulls away from BB and continues walking.      BB walks behind her, getting soaked in the rain. BB I gotta talk to you. NORA I don't want to listen. BB Give me a chance to explain.    You owe me that much. Nora still walking toward her car in the downpour. NORA I don't owe you anything. BB lets her walk away.   After a beat, he yells out. BB It was a lousy thing to do, okay? It was a lousy thing to use you to get back at your husband... but the fact is that I never would have met you otherwise. Nora stops and turns to look at BB.
 It was lousy... it was a disgusting, terrible thing... but a lot of good came out of it. NORA What kind of a person would come up with such a devious thing? BB I'm not always a nice guy, I admit that. I got a lot of training in deceit... it's an occupational hazard. They stand looking at one another in the rain. 
Ya know, Tilley, we been working together for over a year. TILLEY Yeah, must be about that. SAM I've been thinking that sometimes a different combination makes for better luck. Ya know what I mean? I mean, maybe the two of us ain't the right combination. TILLEY I'm just getting used to ya, Sam. SAM Let's face it, we're not exactly setting the world on fire. TILLEY It's a slump... it's a slump, Sam. SAM Maybe it's a slump, but like baseball, some time they have to change the lineup to get the team going again. TILLEY You're not serious about this, are you, Sam? SAM Yeah. TILLEY You're serious? You wanna get another partner? You don't think I'm gonna pull out of this? SAM I know you're gonna... I know you're gonna. TILLEY So? 
Well, I had a    conversation with Solly Shavitz,    so... maybe I'll go with him.  Mouse is gonna   need a new partner because Dennis   is going into used cars. TILLEY Mouse! Mouse! He gets on my nerves... He eats too much. (beat; he holds up his whiskey glass) Here's to some pretty good times, huh? Sam smiles.
I don't get it... the broad smashes into his car and he takes her dancing. Some kind of dating ritual that I'm not familiar with. STANLEY BB's a pretty good tin man, huh? 
Yeah. NORA You don't really show a great deal of exuberance. BB Honey, for me... I'm a parade. CUT TO:
Rattling a special padlock. PULL BACK to reveal Tilley at his front door, trying to get in. 
The furniture, the whole house. They locked it up... they confiscated it. NORA (yelling up to him on the porch) What do you expect? You expect to get some preferential treatment ... you're some special case? You've got to pay your taxes just like everybody else has to pay their taxes! Tilley shrugs. NORA How many arguments did we used to have about filing your taxes?
We had a lot of arguments. Nora starts toward him.     Tilley sits on the steps. NORA  There's a responsibility that you've got to have. It's a long way from high school, Tilley. TILLEY I  was doing pretty good there for a  while... doing pretty good. Had my  house, had a wife, a Cadillac... I  still got my Cadillac. 
I don't know... I did a pretty good house cleaning number on you. NORA Listen, about the divorce. Do you want to file, or should I file? TILLEY I got to be frank with you, this guy is nuts. NORA He told me all about it... all about how you threw eggs at him. TILLEY He told you it was about eggs? The guy tried to break into my house. He tried to steal things from me.
He was trying to find me.    We had an argument. TILLEY I think you'd be making a big mistake if you married him. NORA It's not for you to make decisions for me. TILLEY I think maybe I should, because I think you're being misled... I think you're confused. I think... 
What footstool? NORA The hand-embroidered footstool over by the TV. TILLEY I don't remember seeing that. NORA It's been there forever... it was my granny's. TILLEY It's been there forever?   I've never seen it. NORA You've never seen it!? You've never seen it!? You put your feet on it to watch TV... the hand-embroidered footstool. TILLEY I don't know what you're talking about. I never put my feet up to watch TV. NORA That's the way you are, Tilley, it doesn't mean anything to you. You don't care if they take it all away. It's all you, Tilley! That's the way it's always been. 
Thanks for the lift back, BB. See ya around. BB Okay, Stanley. Stanley closes the car door and BB drives off. Stanley watches BB's car turn the bend, and then he goes toward the office door. CUT TO:
You know something, Stanley, I can always smell a guy who's not made of tin. He walks over to Stanley. BB It's against the law to steal files. I could call and have you arrested and sent to jail, right now. 
Well, we just started out, and if we had some really good hard facts of some infractions, it would give us a lot of credibility in the community. BB walks closer to Stanley, looks at him for a second, grabs him by his tie and pushes him backwards. Stanley crashes into the filing cabinet. BB You know what your big problem is, Stanley? You're lazy. If you want to find out stuff, then you dig... you get on the phone... you canvas... 'We're from the Home Improvement Commission...' Go find your leads... that's what we do all the time. You're just lazy, Stanley. If we're doing something wrong, you should collect all your evidence. Instead, you snoop around... steal files. What is this? Undercover time? You think you're breaking up some big drug ring? Is this the Mafia you've infiltrated? All you've got here is a bunch of guys selling tin for Christ sake!  You want some files? He walks over to the filing cabinet, flips through some files and pulls out three files. Stanley has gotten up from the floor. BB throws the files down on the desk. 
If it's    not gonna be you, it's gonna be    somebody else... and if it's not    tonight, it's gonna be another    time. Stanley exits the office. BB picks up the files that Stanley had taken out of the filing cabinet, and starts to put them back. Then he slams the filing drawers closed very hard. CUT TO:
Maybe if I    talked to him another day he'll    change his mind. I mean, he's    like that... one day, he's this    way and another day he's that way. BB You don't need to talk to him. NORA I mean, he's probably, you know, upset about the I.R.S. taking the house and all our stuff. After a beat. BB Ever see a Volkswagen? 
I dunno... they're interesting. NORA What? BB It's interesting. NORA What's so interesting about a car? BB I dunno. It's a little thing... you know, a little thing. Guy tells me they don't even have radiators... they're air-cooled. NORA Yeah?
It's interesting... different... something new. I like it. CUT TO:
Hey, Tilley... Mr. Marengay's out here. Tilley comes out of the office and stands looking at BB. BB Can I talk to you in private, or do I have to talk to you over fourteen pool tables? Tilley moves down the hall toward BB. 
Rational?   You're going to be rational? BB We've got our problems, but let's try and isolate this particular situation. TILLEY Isolate... isolate... I like this kind of talk. What the hell nonsense is that? BB What are you gonna gain from this thing here? TILLEY Now let me see here... I've got to isolate that for a moment and think it over. BB Nobody's going to benefit from making me mad. TILLEY You ought to hear yourself. You know that? You ought to listen to the way you talk. You come in here, you want to take my wife ... you want to isolate this situation... you want to be rational. I've got no tolerance for you, mister. You know what I'm saying? 
Why don't we play a little  game of eight ball? If I lose,   I consent to the divorce...  if you lose, you give Nora up...  walk away from her. BB stares at Tilley; Tilley eyes BB. BB  Rack 'em. HARD CUT TO:
BB Combination... side pocket. The tin men react.   BB hits the ball and sinks it. BB That's four. 
 You make this one here, and you win. TILLEY Don't I know it... don't I know it! He shoots. The eight ball heads for the pocket and doesn't make it. It hangs up on the felt about two feet from the pocket. BB Bad break. BB quickly goes to work... sinks every one of his balls. He eyes the eight ball carefully. Tilley's nervous. A couple of the tin men make private side bets whether the ball goes or doesn't. BB lines up the shot; he shoots, and it misses, hanging up on the lip of the pocket. TILLEY Tough break. Tilley quickly moves and sinks the eight ball. TILLEY You lose. BB Yeah... that puts an end to one of our differences. Now, concerning you... TILLEY Yeah? 
Stay out of this... this is between the two of us. BB gets to his feet... the two guys eye one another, moving. BB quickly moves with incredible cat-like speed with four hits into the stomach, really fast, and one hit to Tilley's head. Tilley falls into the rack of pool cues, they all fall to the ground. BB goes to jump on Tilley. He slips on one of the pool cues and falls to the ground.
I think our business is finished. Tilley just stands watching BB.    BB walks up the steps of the pool hall and exits. CUT TO:
GIRL #1 ... Improves the insulation...
... We'll have a representative in your area... Carly, Cheese and Looney are sitting around a desk drink- ing coffee. LOONEY ... Danny's an example of that. Danny goes into a bar, chicks lined up and down the bar. Walks up to one and says, 'Honey, would you like to fuck?' She'd slap him in the face. He'd move down to the next girl, say the same thing... she'd slap him. Then he'd just keep moving down, going from one girl to the other. Fifteen, maybe sixteen girls would tell him to get lost... to get the hell out of there... BB enters, says "hi" to the Girls, moves to get a coffee. LOONEY ... Call him names... but he doesn't take it personal, you see ... he keeps going, and then the next girl smiles. He says, 'Why don't you buy me a drink'... he scores. Every time. He goes through a lot of girls, takes a lot of slaps in the face, but he never takes it personally... BB moves over to the guys. 
You know who's no longer married to who? CARLY Well, we ought to know. There's like a million fucking people living in Baltimore. How many guesses do we get? (NOTE: The following action and dialogue will run concurrently.) 
Then why don't you call      Better to err on the safe her?                         side. LOONEY                       BB I stood her up in high       I'd rather handle it school... she's hated me     myself. for nearly fifteen years. BAGEL CHEESE               Want me to find out what You stood up Vivien          they've got against you? Marshall? Are you an         I know a clerk down there. idiot! What an idiot.        For a price I could get the inside scoop. These LOONEY               guys are just fishing I stood her up for Denise,   right now. who happened to have been my wife. So, yes, I was      BB just shakes his head an idiot. If I knew then     "no." Bagel looks at what I know now...           him.
What was your ex-wife's      You okay, Double B? maiden name? BB LOONEY              Yeah... yeah. Essex. BAGEL CARLY                Because ever since Moe Denise Essex. Did she have   went down you seem a a sister named Wilma?        little off your feed to me. LOONEY Yeah.                                BB Thanks for the concern, CARLY                Bagel, but I'll be all You're kidding me.           right. 
Hey, Wing, isn't that the putz from the Commission? Points to car driving out of parking lot. WING Masters?   Yeah.
What the hell's he doing hanging around here? WING He wants information. TILLEY I nailed his ass the other day, Wing. Can't lay a finger on me. I was amazing, you should have been there. I was amazing... I was respectful, courteous, but I was slipping and sliding... they couldn't touch me. 
You're gonna sell me out to the Commission? Wing, am I hearing this right? WING I'm up front with you about this... I'm up front with ya, Tilley. I've got my balls in a vice... what am I gonna do? TILLEY Is this about the money I owe you? Are you just pissed? You want to get even because of the horse race? I told ya it was an accident. WING Tilley, it's got nothing to do with the money. TILLEY You're selling me out? You're gonna let them bury me? Jesus Christ, Wing... Jesus Christ! I'm not gonna be able to work in this business? Wing, this was my chosen field! WING Masters was gonna take this company apart. You're the low man on the totem pole, Tilley. There's a lot of guys earning a good living... no sense for it all to go up in smoke. You understand, don't you, Tilley? It's just business. 
CUT TO:
 Bill! Better hurry up, everything's ready. 
BB comes into the kitchen of his apartment.    He is tying his tie. WIDEN SHOT to include Nora. NORA I can't believe that you're up so early. This is a rare occasion.
Yeah. I just got some business downtown I gotta take care of. He stands there watching Nora as she prepares the plates of food. NORA Toast will be ready in a second. Coffee's on the table. He continues to stand watching her -- she's not aware that he's watching her. She waits for the toast to pop up out of the toaster. BB Listen, Nora. I... um... I... er ... lied to you the other day. Nora is still waiting for the toast, looking inside the toaster to see if it's getting brown.
How so? BB I went to see Tilley about the divorce. She turns to look at him. BB He was not too agreeable, and one thing led to another, and we decided to shoot some pool to settle the matter. NORA What?! 
This plate yours or mine? NORA Why don't you take both... maybe you can choke to death on one of them. BB takes one of the plates and goes toward the table. Nora watches him a beat, amazed that he doesn't seem to recognize the seriousness of the situation. 
I lost. He dips more toast into his eggs and eats. NORA You lost? BB I blew the eight ball. NORA You lost? BB Yeah. 
Well, I'm supposed to give you up as part of honoring that agreement, but I'm not that honorable a guy. He smiles, takes a quick sip of his coffee. BB I gotta go. NORA Why are you running off so fast here? BB I told you, I got some business downtown. He gives her a kiss. Starts to go, turns back, gives her another kiss, more passionate this time.
I'll see you later. He goes down the hall to walk out the front door.
CUT TO:
CUT TO:
 You gotta testify, huh? BB You? TILLEY Yeah. BB You got a lawyer? TILLEY Nah. I already testified once. I beat 'em before, I'll beat 'em again.  You got a high-priced mouthpiece to speak for ya? BB I don't need one.    I don't expect to win. TILLEY How so? BB I gave them some pretty incriminating evidence. 
The hearing for the Home Improvement Commission is now in session. Tilley stands. TILLEY  So... how's Nora? BB She's doin' all right. A MAN comes out of the hearing room. MAN Ernest Tilley? TILLEY Yeah... here.  Take good care of her. CUT TO:
 Are you aware that that's a violation of sections 258 and 261? 
who is falling apart. TILLEY As I remember, no sale was made concerning those customers. MASTERS It fell out because a loan couldn't be arranged, but the people did agree in principle.  The point that we'd like to stress, is that you misled these people. Told them the job was free. Then you sent in your closer with some cover story about how you had suffered a nervous breakdown, and a sale was ultimately made for twenty-three hundred and seventy- seven dollars. That is misleading and deceptive sales practice. TILLEY It was    temporary insanity. I don't    know... it just came over me ... it    might have been something I ate.     I don't know... it was crazy,    I'm the first to admit it was a    crazy thing to do. Believe me... 
who is watching the proceedings intently. MASTERS It is the feeling of this commission that these infractions are severe violations of the Home Improvement Laws, and therefore constitute misuse of the license to sell aluminum siding as approved by this state.
gets up from the table and goes to the back of the room to exit the building. He stops at a desk just inside the door where the clerk is sitting. Tilley pulls out his wallet, takes out a small document, and throws it down on the desk. He exits the building. CUT TO:
EMPTY_LINE
Sorry about your license. TILLEY Yeah.   You in there? BB Yeah.   They got my license as well. TILLEY Sorry to hear it. BB What are you doing standing there?
This is where my car used to be. BB Stolen? TILLEY I.R.S. Fucking bandits! Bandits! Thieving sons of bitches! BB looks at Tilley for a beat. BB You need a ride uptown? TILLEY I could use one. 
Some bullshit commission, huh?  Tell me, where's it written it the Constitution that says you can't hustle for money? Where's it written? It ain't like I went into an alley and hit a guy over the head with a brick and stole his money... not like I broke into somebody's house and stole his stuff. All I'm doing is selling... where's the crime in that? BB I don't know what the world's coming to. TILLEY You're telling me. I don't know what the world's coming to.
You know what our big crime is? We're nickel and dime guys. We're small time hustlers.  They got us because we're hustling nickels and dimes. 
Gotta find a new business to get into. TILLEY New? Very hard to find something new to get into. BB puts his foot on the gas and starts to drive. BB Maybe... maybe not. TILLEY Better put on my thinking cap... not easy to think of something new. CUT TO:
BB Believe me, we'll find something. It's just a matter of time. TILLEY Yeah... matter of time. Beat. 
