A sensei once counseled a grief- stricken boy, as his older brother
N STARS - Cam slows its truck-out to a gradual stop as we see the pattern beginning to form. As if following the stars' pattern, the CAM LOWERS as we find ourselves going into-
And more importantly, you are brothers. And brothers you shall remain, despite time... argument...
..and even... distance.
You monsters! UP ANGLE - As we see the THREE FEDERALES, greasy men, holding AK-47's, and looking down with hardened indifference. OS, we hear an EVIL CHUCKLE. The men part as we see- - COL. PANTERA. A bottom-heavy disgusting pig of a man walks up between them. Pantera leans down, face to face with her.
We appreciate the generous donation for the continued protection of your village. ANGLE ON - Their jeep, overflowing with the Village's precious crops. WIDER - A tiny group  of other villagers stand at a safe distance. The Woman's HUSBAND runs forward. He immediately LUNGES at Pantera, just as- -SHIKA-SHIKA - Pantera is flanked by 3 MACHINE GUNS pointed at the Husband's chest. Pantera slothfully grins. He leans forward and yanks an HEIRLOOM NECKLACE from her neck.
After all, the jungle can be a very dangerous place. BAH-HAHAHAHA. They jump into the Jeep and tear into the jungle LAUGHING.
The jeep clamors down the bumpy makeshift path. Pantera sits in the passenger seat as the others are crammed in around the food. The Jungle looms ominous around them.
Idiota! Watch where you're going!
There's a log on the road, senor.  ...that wasn't there an hour ago.
Well, what are you waiting for?!
 Cortez! Andelay!
...yirk! ON DRIVER - His eyes go wide. Trying to see in the dark.
 D-d-dios mio. ON LOG - Cortez is gone. Pantera wakes up.
What?! WHAT IS IT?! OS - Hear the sound of a CHAIN clinking. Then WHOOSHING as the chain winch suddenly FLIES IN, and CRACKS the BURLY SOLDIER across the jaw! It wraps itself around his neck. Before he can react... - YOINK! He gets pulled over the hood of the jeep, landing on the ground HARD.
Burly gets pulled backward... away from the Jeep and into... the darkness. He SCREAMS the entire way, clawing the ground. ON JEEP - Driver is freaking out now. Last Soldier is in the back. Pantera stands up in the jeep. "Last" jumps out and readies his machine gun.
EMPTY_LINE
What?!
The jungle god that punishes those who prey upon the weak.  He's coming... for us.
I'm sorry, senor. Driver bounds out of the Jeep and runs SCREAMING into the jungle. CAM PULLS BACK with him as Pantera shrinks in bg.
An oasis of calm, violated by this sweating, machete- clutching brute. He stumbles, then stands in the middle.
I am not afraid of a myth! 
Actually... it's "Turtle", pal. Pantera swings around. Eyes wide. N ATTACKER - We pan up the thick green legs. Muscular and strong. Further up. Arms to match. Rough skin. It wears a shorn HOODED PONCHO. Inside are two white eyes and gritted smiling teeth. The poncho falls to the ground.
Let's see if a ghost can die, then. Pantera SCREAMS and runs to Leo and starts swinging! At the CLASH of sword and machete, we-
It's a miracle! The village rejoices. The Boy steps aside for a beat, looks back at the Jungle. Something catches his eye. ...a small crouched figure on a tree branch. Barely silhouetted. His white eyes lit in the darkness. One of them WINKS as the boy smiles.
 The Ghost of the Jungle.
Leo leaps into frame. He takes out his katanas and lays them carefully on the ground. He KNEELS, head bowed, eyes closed.
My training is now complete. The camera lifts away from Leo... and then PLUNGES into the nearby CAVERN. MUSIC begins to swell. Cam travels a few feet until it DIPS TO BLACK, and comes up beginning our-
Heh, heh... suckers. ON MUGGER - His eyes suddenly go wide as - VROOOOOM! - we see a jet-black tweaked out motorcycle fly over the cops' heads, aiming directly for Mugger!
Whaaa!!! The Mugger runs, but can't escape. The Driver is dressed in all-black motorcycle leathers and black-visored helmet. Scary and faceless. He quickly gains on the Mugger and GRABS him by the collar in mid-stride!
You crazy?! Put me down, man! But Driver doesn't. Instead, he holds him lower without stopping the bike... and proceeds to plow Mugger's head into every trash can and garbage bin along 9th Avenue!
Wh-wh-what kinda freak are you?! The Driver gets off the bike. Silence. Backlit by headlight. He walks directly to the Mugger with purpose. Mugger starts to really freak out. Driver picks him up by the collar and SLAMS him to the back WOODEN FENCE WALL.
P-p-please. Don't kill me, man. Driver just cocks his head. Mugger can see his own terrified reflection his Driver's black visor. Driver reaches behind his back and pulls out a COMBAT KNIFE! He reels back and...
Wh-wha-wha-WHAT ARE YOU DOI- AAAGH!
...whoa.
The Nightwatcher.
WIDER - A quieter area of the city. Broken by the squealing of the bike as Driver  roars in to a stop. Nightwatcher drives underneath a TRAIN BRIDGE. He takes off his helmet. Red cloth spills out. He turns around as we see-
Heh, heh. Nice try, chump. QUICK SHOTS - Ignites and revs engine. Straps helmet back on. Headlight comes to life. Lets the clutch out. VROOOOM! - CAM STARTS TIGHT ON bike as Raphael tears away.
Dude... I'm scared!
CLOSE ON - A PAIR OF TURTLE EYES... MICHAELANGELO'S! They're wide with FEAR. Nervously darting around, unable to keep up with the surrounding danger.
Dude! They're all around me! What do I do? WHAT DO I DO?! Mikey's eyes continue to panic. DONATELLO's voice comes in over a RADIO. Calming.
Just relax, Mikey. Remember your training. You'll be fine.
But I need back up this time, man!
 Okay - waita-WHOA-WHOA-WHOA-WHOA!! Suddenly TEN KIDS WITH BIRTHDAY HATS AND FOAM NUNCHUCKS run in SCREAMING and start beating on Mikey... a little too hard.
Get him! Yeah! You suck! Hey! Awright! Take that, Turtle-dork!
 This was the best birthday ever, Mommy! Mikey GROANS as we-
Thanks so much. You're worth every penny. I have to tell all my friends about you. You'll love their kids too.
I can only hope they're as lovely as the rugrats you got here. ON KIDS - They look tough, brandishing their nerf weapons - a toddler street gang. One of the kids does a finger-point-then- throat-slit gesture. The mom looks and beams. The kids quickly smile to cover.
 Such... angels. Mikey looks to the side, and sees the still piled-high stack of PIZZA BOXES through the fake head POV.
Okay! Everyone say good-bye to Cowabunga Carl! BYE!
 Hyuk! Cowabunga dudes! Bye!
ON DOOR - As the door closes and Mom turns back, a green hand reaches in quickly a grabs a box of pizza. The door closes.
Heheh... score.
Mikey opens the van's rear doors. He PULLS OFF the fake zipper on his chest and then pulls off his fake turtle head. His trademark orange bandana spills out. He turns, breathing in the fresh surface air. A quiet beat until - A POLICE SIREN approaches, faint, in the distance. Mikey jumps in the van, slams the door shut as the car whizzes by. WIDER - the van takes off down the street.
Hey, hey, hey... don't forget the face thing.
OFF HIS LOOK - We see Mikey beside him in the van. He's behind the wheel - face FROZEN in a goofy SMILE like a ventriloquist to "hide" his identity. Don follows on a small surveillance cam under the rearview mirror.
Yes... sir.
That's a good boy.
All's I'm saying Donnie is that no one would notice if YOU did one of these gigs every now and again.
But you add such... panache to the character. Mikey, emotional, pops into "fully animated" facial mode. He rubs his sore neck.
Well, if panache is French for "punching bag", I'd have to agree with ya.
A darkened room lit only by the lights of dozens of tv's, monitors and TV tubes. Cables run everywhere. In front of them is DONATELLO - our resident tech-head turtle.
Close enough. I - uh-oh- ON MONITOR - Don watches Mikey through a TRAFFIC CAM in front of the van. Don is jacked into every major security and surveillance camera in the city.
-you got a peeping tom.
Aw nuts. Mikey suddenly grips his face back into a tight SMILE, frozen. He looks over and waves at the man who confusingly waves back.
 Just get me outta here, dude. ON DON - He hits some switches. Monitors change.
Traffic's clear eastbound for two blocks. Then hook up with route J. BACK WITH MIKEY - He's still waving with a frozen smile.
 Righteous. Mikey immediately "unfreezes" and sticks his tongue out and antics at the Man! Before the man can react, Mikey TEARS OUT and zips across traffic down a deserted side-street. ...as we notice the annoying ice cream style music tinkering
You HAD to install the music too...
All part of the cover, my friend.
The van parks in a long-forgotten alleyway. A dummy gate closes behind it, obscuring it from view. UNDER THE VAN - We see it's parked over a manhole cover. It slowly slides shut.
The dripping concrete and metal maze explodes with the cacophony of Mikey riding his skateboard, backpack in tow.
Mikey lands in the "foyer" of sorts. Atop entrance stairs. He kicks the double doors open.
Honeeeeey! I'm hooome! As Mikey slides down the banister, the cam dollies around
Moneymoneymoneymoney. As Donnie walks away, Mikey LOUDLY CLEARS HIS THROAT. Don stops as Mikey holds out his hand. Don's busted - he peels off a few bills and hands Mikey his share.
Domo arigato, dude. Mikey walks into the room and plops down on a sofa. Hits a remote as a BIG SCREEN lights up in front of him. Suddenly-
Mikey springs from the couch. Snaps to obedience.
Yes, sensei. ANGLE ON - SPLINTER the Japanese rodent master and father of the TMNT. He is well-kempt, still walks with a cane, and has the same sparkle in his eye. He approaches Mikey. Silent.
 Well?
Sensei?  Oh! Here ya go, Master Splinter. Mikey reaches into his bag and removes a foil-wrapped piece of BIRTHDAY CAKE. Splinter lights up.
Ahh! Butter creme frosting! Donatello walks to Splinter. Holds his hand out, judgmental.
Master. No cake. You remember your last cholesterol tests.
But I-  -Donatello! I am your Master!
Nice try, sensei. But you can still be my Master... with low cholesterol. Splinter surrenders the cake. As Don walks away, Michaelangelo reaches into his bag and secretly passes Splinter a smaller wrapped piece.
He-heh. You have done well, my son. Donatello walks to the fridge and opens it - FILLED with dozens of other pieces of Birthday Cake leftovers. He tosses it with the rest.                                  C
The street noise below is barely audible. Camera creeps along the edge of the building, reaching a row of GARGOYLES. AN ALONG GARGOYLES - Still. Concrete. Creepy. Just as we pass the fourth, we barely notice it's WHITE EYES OPENING. QUICK SNAP BACK TO GARGOYLE - Only now it's gone. Something strange is coming to town...
Careful! That isn't some box full of fish! CAM LOWERS - as APRIL O'NEIL leaps down into frame. Dressed in jungle expedition gear with her head wrapped in a bandana. She takes off her sunglasses and admires the crate. ON BOX - Labelled "O'Neil Cargo". Something ominous about the crate. PUSH IN on it as April steps in front. Admires it with pride. Turns, takes out a cell phone, and hits speed dial. ON PHONE DISPLAY - "Calling HOME". It rings.
 Where are you?
A spacious NYC loft - tons of bookcases work as room dividers. Piled with artifacts, unopened crates of all sizes, boxes of maps, and a general organized mess. A hockey game BLARES from a TV set. CAM PANS ACROSS ROOM - The telephone continues to ring just as we reach the KITCHEN - with piles of dirty dishes and fast food. And then a path of strewn clothes that gets messier and messier until we reach - - CASEY JONES, snoring on a sofa. He finally wakes up, clamors for the phone, tripping over mess in the process.
Hey. It's me. I'm back. Casey rubs his face, tries to orient himself. Looks at watch.
Was that today, babe? April's disappointed. Same old Casey.
Yes. It was today that I returned to you after being in a deadly jungle for almost a month.
I'm sorry, babe. I must've-
Forget it. I'll take a cab. A long pause on the phone. Casey knows he's busted.
I missed you? April doesn't answer. She closes the phone. Casey slumps in his chair, shaking his head.
Good goin', Case. Back at the dock, April is back to business.
Howie! Get this on the truck for delivery! Let's go! P.O.V. INSIDE BOX - See April through the wood slats. We'd swear we almost hear... LOW GROWLING.
Mikey is on his bed. His thumbs pound away at a video game on TV - bored. He puts down the controller and yells to the ceiling.
He stands up and walks to DON'S ROOM. He opens it. It takes only one foot until the door is pushed up against piles of TECH JUNK. Mikey uses his shoulder and pushes it open. N DON - He's hunched over a work table, back to Mikey. Tinkering as always. Wild inventions line the walls, some finished, some not. Some pay tribute to past TMNT adventures.
Don, y'ever feel like you were meant for more? To DO more? Like, I mean, sometimes I feel like...
like we never really left that glass turtle bowl when we were little dudes. REVERSE ANGLE - Don lifts his head up, eyes MAGNIFIED in some bizarre head contraption. He flips up side panels, ELECTRONICA MUSIC blares out.
Oh, hi Mikey. You say something?
 Every day it's the same thing. Wake up. Birthday party gig. Drive home. Watch TV. Train... Rinse. Repeat.
I know. Isn't it great? A beat. Mikey sighs, then walks back downstairs to the LIVING ROOM SOFA. He and the camera think he's alone, but before he knows it, Splinter is sitting next to him, cross legged, still, and sipping tea.
Michaelangelo. Boredom is never an indicator of your surroundings. It is a reflection of your inner heart. Fill yourself with excitement on the inside... and you'll live the most rewarding life of all. Mikey stares at Splinter, dead pan. A beat. Then returns to flipping channels. He stops on a NEWS program - "NYC DIRT".
Now THAT'S what I'm talking about! Cruising the streets, busting those who hold themselves above the law.  But they aren't above HIS. Don walks in, holding an in-process invention. He looks up.
Mikey, the man's practically a criminal himself. Anyone who operates without boundary or rule of law cannot be legislated and needs to be reigned in.
Sounds like four turtles I used ta know. ON DOOR - Raphael walks in, his Nightwatcher costume no where in sight.
Whatta we talkin' about, boys? Soundin' a little too egghead fer my tastes.
Ah, Raphael. Your brothers and I were just discussing the vigilante Nightwatcher once again.  Where have you been? You've been spending so much time away from home lately... Raphael's on edge from the mention of Nightwatcher already. His attention doesn't break from Donatello.
I joined a book a' the month club.  So just what's your beef with puttin' dirtbags behind bars, Donnie? Go ahead... enlighten me.
I have no problem with the incarceration of those who deserve it, but if someone like Nightwatcher has ultimate power... then who makes sure he doesn't cross the line? Mikey picks up two NINJA BLADE RINGS, twirling them around aggressively in mock battle.
I think he's COOL.
Of course you would.
 Keeya! HATCHAAAAAA!!
Sometimes there are lines that even the police can't cross. Someone has to be willing to do what needs to be done. And to do that, fear becomes a weapon.
You are such a Neanderthal. Raphael does the bully FAKE LUNGE at Don. Don reacts quick and startled, eyes wide.
I rest my case.
 Yes, sensei.  And quit touchin' my stuff. Raph yanks the Ring Blades out of Mikey's hands and storms out of the room by flipping up a series of cables to the second floor.
 That was just a startle response and isn't really an indication of fear! Raph does the "blah blah" hand gesture from above. Enters his room, slams the door and immediately BLASTS MUSIC... ...and it's some annoying pop HIP-HOP song.
It's an involuntary thing your body does when stimulated like that.  What? It's true.
A large JET LINER flies into the city. Lowering. The wheels fold out under the carriages. CLOSER - LEO is on the landing gear, his face lit up by the city glow in front of him. He jumps off as - FOOMP! - a HANG- GLIDER opens up from his backpack. He lowers the glider to the water and RELEASES!
Disgusting. Dripping. Out of the slime, Leo rises. A beat... inhales, then SMILES WIDE.
Mmm... home sweet home.
All is peaceful in the lair. The big screen TV is the only light source. Mikey snores and drools on the couch, covered in junk food wrappers. Donnie sleeps with an "TECH HEAD" magazine over his face... gadget-in-process in his lap. ON ENTRANCE - Leo walks in and places his bag on the floor. The place feels different... but still feels like home.
Leo peers in cautiously. Splinter is still awake. Expecting him. Kneeling on the floor. Very serious.
Enter. Leo walks in and kneels in front of Splinter.
I have completed my training, master. I am prepared for the next stage.
That you are, my son. You must now apply all that you have learned on your lengthy journey to your everyday life. THAT will be the most challenging training of all... plinter reaches out and hands Leonardo an ANCIENT MEDALLION. Leo is touched. CLOSE ON SHADOWS OUTSIDE OF ROOM - We see a pair of EYES, watching the entire scene... jealous.
I've missed you, Leonardo.
I've missed you too, father.
I'm afraid much has changed in your brothers' spirits since you have left. But now that you are home, they will finally have the ethical and warrior leadership they have been lacking. The family needs you. ON LEO - He swallows that big pill very hard.
Heh. Yeah... I mean, yes sensei.
 Raphael, your brother is home.
Hey.
Hey. Raphael eyes Leo... and then the medallion.
So... congratulations.
Thanks.
 Well, I'm goin' to bed. He leaves. TV ROOM - Raph walks through the room, cuffs Don on the back of the head, and keeps on walking.
Leo's home. Donatello wakes up, looks around. LIGHTS UP when he sees Leo.
Leo!! ON MIKEY - He wakes up. A Cheese Doodle stuck to his upper snout. Really groggy.
But I don't WANNA pop out of the birthday cake, Mrs. Ro- 
Mikey flips past Donnie and slams Leo with a gripping HUG... and doesn't let go.
Hey little bro! a beat) Mikey? You can let go now... um, Mikey?
It was all a nightmare. We go WIDER as we take in the ostentatious bedroom of MAXIMILIAN WINTERS, a young mid-40's. Famous NYC entrepreneur. inters is large, handsome, built and powerful in every sense. His bedroom reflects it as well - large simple shapes, decorated with a modern-day tribal/tech appeal. This guy is filled with adrenaline, power and machismo.
Mr. Winters, sir. ON DOORWAY - Standing there is a beautiful black-haired assistant dressed in full suit and tie with a clipboard.
It's time for your morning workout.
Rock/hip-hop music crashes in as we see Winters' morning workout - a combination of weaponry work (martial arts and others), floor routines and bag work. He takes it all very seriously. Sequence ends with him smashing the top off of a Mook Jung training block with his bare fist. He walks out of the room, grabbing a towel from a blonde assistant.
Winters walks in his crisp suit. His office is large and austere. Two levels of history in books, artifacts, warrior themed curios and power.
Mr. Winters, sir? ON DOOR - His Assistant stands at the large doors.
The board is waiting.
Excellent. He walks to the large bay windows that overlooks the city.
Now outside the window, he smiles at the view.
Tell them I'm on my way down. He slowly LOWERS OUT OF FRAME. CAM PULLS OUT WIDER REVEALING - Winters Office is an "elevator" of sorts that can ride up and down the front of the building, allowing him access to any floor of his Tower without leaving his desk. WIDER - see the Tower is a monolith in the middle of Manhattan - complete with it's own front Central Park-ish gated entry. A true work of modern architecture.
We see the wonder of everything Winters - mixing of old artifacts with modern day aesthetic and implementation. The ceilings are vast and there is no mistaking the worth of the man and his company.
Winters walks in the room. CLOSE ON him as he stops at the head of the boardroom table.
Gentlemen! Let's begin.
Leo... what's up, bro?
Just enjoying being home. hey walk past Donnie's Chop Shop room as - BOOM! - something explodes and smoke pours out under his door.
Mikey and Leo COUGH, leave the smokey area.
Say, what's up with April and Casey? I expected them to drop by after I got back.
We don't see much of `em anymore. April seems to be working a lot - eww - and Casey seems to be, I dunno, "different" lately. Maybe he doesn't like having to put the toilet seat down now that they've moved in together.
They're living together now? They get to the living room area. Mikey walks to the edge of a jury-rigged HALF-PIPE he built in an old water slough. Mikey continues as he skates back and forth.
To be honest with ya, they're kinda buzzkills to be around.
Is Casey at least still doing his hockey mask thing?
Dunno. Haven't noticed since The Nightwatcher has come home to roost. WOOOOHOOOOOOOO!
"Nightwatcher"? That some new comic book you're hooked on, Mikey? RAPHAEL walks in. Picks up Mikey's scrapbook as he passes the sofa and slugs it in Leo's chest.
This should explain most of it. The legacy of the city's newest hero. Compliments of the fanboy over there.    M
Joke all you want, Raphy. But train hard and eat your veggies and one day, you too can be as cool as The Nightwatcher, dude.
I can only hope, Mikey. I can only hope... Leo disapprovingly flips through the book.
This guy could bring heat on all of us if he keeps this up. Showboating isn't a replacement for justice... it's just self-indulgence.  Someone needs to talk to this thug. ON RAPH - He looks... dying to say something. But can't.
CLOSE ON - A familiar-looking white HOCKEY MASK. Eyes blink behind it.
Yo, Case? Wanna be goalie? The mask is pushed aside by Casey - Kid 1 was holding it.
Nah, you know I work for a livin'. It's Star Center or nothin' else.
Whatever! Let's get it on! They begin a boisterous round of hockey. Trash talk, gentle checking and all the requisite boy things. We see that the kids love Casey. And vice versa. Suddenly-
EMPTY_LINE
Tommy's defeated. Looks at the disappointed boys.
Sorry dudes.
Busted! Have fun with your mommy...  ...oh no. OFF HIS LOOK - We see APRIL, dressed stunning in a dark business suit at the other side of the street. She's dangling a WHITE SHIRT and a TIE from her other hand.
Aw, c'mon April! We just started! April just gives him "the look" with an eyebrow cock. Casey knows he can't win.
Can't Casey stay and play for just five more minutes, Miss O'Neil? Pleeeeeeease?
Not today, Nate. Mister Jones has to pretend to be an adult for a few hours.
Awwwww! Man! Baaah! Casey hands his stick, then quickly turns with a grin.
Later boys!
I need your help with a delivery.
 Do you need my funtahstick muscles?
The doors open in Winters Lobby. April struts in, owning the place. Casey struggles pulling the pallet holding the LARGE CRATE behind them. As she passes reception-
Mr. Winters. April O'Neil is here.
Winters sits at his large desk as the large doors open and April and Casey spill in.
Miss O'Neil. You are a vision. Thirty days in a jungle, and beautiful as ever. He shakes her hand and double-cheek kisses her. Casey's eyes widen - is THIS what his girlfriend does?
Hello Max.
Chris! How's it going? Winters nearly crushes Casey's hand in his grip.
Actually, It's Ca-
 So how was your trip?
You know, the typical - corrupt government officials, double crossed by a jungle guide, all ending in a heart-pounding chase. Winters and April chuckle. Cam adjusts to show Casey between them in the bg, looking uncomfortable and out of place.
But it was all worth it. beat - excited) I found it. The fourth General. Winters BEAMS, way too excited as well. April holds out her hand to Casey, who doesn't know what she wants. He awkwardly HIGH FIVES her.
Yeah-ha! The fourth General.
 The crow-bar.
Oh. He hands it to April as she twirls up a CROW-BAR and cracks open the front panel. INSIDE BOX POV - The light gradually breaks in, until - CREAK - the front panel falls to the floor. CLOSE ON - Winters' look. Pure wonder and admiration. He walks up to it slowly. April and Casey cautiously stay back.
Can I ask you a question?
EMPTY_LINE
I've been so grateful for the opportunities you've given me lately. I'd probably be still selling antique curios if you hadn't visited my shop that day.  But I have to ask... why the fascination with these particular works of art? I'd never even heard of the Legend of Yaotl until we met. He looks up. The cam PANS RIGHT. It travels past an SUIT OF ARMOR in the FG. Goes to BLACK. Continue PAN until we're in-
It was a time long before the Mayans, April. Long before the Aztecs and even the Olmecs. It was a time of legends. A time of greatness. The true mother culture of Central America. Cool shots of Yaotl. His armor, his stance, etc.
There was a man named Yaotl. More a force of nature than man. And together with his Four Warrior- Priest Generals, they pillaged every culture in their path. QUICK SHOTS OF EACH GENERAL. The walk along side Yoatl. Possibly slo-mo. We will come to recognize them through their distinct armor as the Four Stone Generals - in human form.
And for every culture they destroyed, they drank in all the magic and knowledge known to them.
They became a warring hurricane, gathering more power and knowledge with each conquest. GROUP SHOT - Of five Warriors. High atop a hillside, finally stopped. Ready for battle. Their character-specific weapons are drawn. Around them is a small army of MINIONS.
Then they came across a culture rich with science, magic and their own technology. A South American version of "Atlantis".
It was like blood in the water for a predator like Yaotl. CLOSE ON - Yaotl. As he raises his sword in the air. CAM DOLLIES AROUND HIS HEAD REVEALING their opposing forces. An army of THOUSANDS. Waving their weapons in the air. The opposing army CHARGES. Yaotl's men pull out   a large ORNAMENTAL STAND - a "stargate" of sorts. Yaotl   and his men are unmoving... as they begin a ceremony. Yaotl   looks to the heavens above - as we see a CLUSTER OF SPECIFIC   STARS move into place.
As the army approached, Yaotl used the knowledge they'd gained in black magic and sorcery. Timing their attack with the alignment of the Stars of Kikin, they opened a portal to another world. ON CHARGING ARMY - they stop dead in their tracks. Front-lit by the OS portal. Don't know what to expect - ON PORTAL - A crackling electric circle opens to another dimension. Suddenly - DOZENS OF MONSTERS EXPLODE OUT! Creatures of all varieties. Gnashing Fangs. Swiping claws.
They unleashed an army of monsters. N BATTLEFIELD - men getting slaughtered (in a nice PG sort of way). Quick shots. Intense.
The monsters knew no side   - they destroyed the enemy... as   well as Yaotl's own army. Men who   swore to spill their blood for his   cause. Yaotl had to do something   to stop more from coming through.
In the end, there were no victors. And they were responsible for the eradication of the greatest culture that will never be known. The knowledge that was lost would never be found again...
 I was just resting my eyes...
Quite the story, Max. concerned re: Statue) You don't think that this could be-
Oh no, Miss O'Neil. looks back to statue) Like you said... just a story. inters doesn't break his stare.
One of the girls will pay your fee on the way out.
Thanks. Um... goodbye... Max. April and Casey leave Winters, consumed with his new treasure. He doesn't reply.
April and Casey walk the lobby. She shoots him "the look".
What!? It was a boring story!
That is so perfectly CASEY JONES. I give you opportunity. I give you the chance to become a better man. And what do you do with it?
Well, maybe if you were home for more than four days at a time, you'd see that I DON'T WANT ANY OF
 Casey, you better be careful-
Here I am nice enough to help you out, dress in this get-up and all I get is grief?! ...as he knocks and SMASHES the vase to the floor.
Oh boy. Klaxons sound as SHINK-SHINK-SHINK - METAL PLATES SLAM DOWN
Give me strength.
Winters is still alone in his office. Still studying the statue. A beat. He turns his head to the side.
You can come out now. IDER - As we see FOUR FIGURES appear out of the smallest and darkest of shadows! The LEADER slinks forward - clearly a
Your talents are commendable.
As are yours. Most don't notice us until we decide they will.
Well, I guess I'm just special that way. Winters walks over to his desk. The Statue looms behind them.
So down to business - aside from the other reasons for your visit to America, are you interested in my offer we discussed?
I must confess... I still don't know exactly what we are to do for you.
I need the finely-tuned eyes and stealth of your Foot Ninja to... monitor the city for me over the next few days. Winters walks to his window. It's night. Overlooks the city.
Just keep your eyes peeled for anything... strange.
 What kind of strange things? The question hangs as we PUSH IN ON Statue's face... his eerie eyes. We think his eye GLOWS, only we-
The glowing eye is really a STAR. The same line pattern we saw at movie's open. The stars ADJUST... lining up in a more straight-lined manner. CAM LOWERS, placing us back in-
A MAN walks down the sidewalk. As he passes a DARKENED ALLEYWAY, he hears a low GROWL come from it. He stops. ALLEY POV - As the man looks in. Can't see a thing. Hand-held cam. He moves to leave... and the growl comes again. STREET - Man stares in. No one on the street. Looks closer... closer... grows more tense as...
 Gave me a scare kitty. He pets the kitty a bit, then walks off. CAM LOWERS behind cat, as Man walks off into the distance. Until... ...WHAM! A large burly CLAWED ARM slams out of the shadows onto the cat, yanking it back into the alley! Quick caterwaul. Silence. And then we hear a BURP.
Does ANYBODY train anymore?!
Just a sec, dude! I'm almost at level eighteen.  Scratch that... seventeen.
In... uh... a few minutes, Leo. I'm in the middle of- KZZZT-BOOOM! - An OS invention blows up.
Um... make that another hour. Leo sighs. Splinter walks by, not stopping.
A true leader knows how to motivate his troops regardless of their own motivations. Splinter walks past a large FUSE BOX. Leo thinks a beat. Then smiles. WIDE SHOT OF LAIR MAIN ROOM as - KACHUNK! - the entire room goes BLACK.
Aw man! What's goin' on?! WHO
Ninja tag, topside!
The boys stand high atop the city below. Readying to run a gauntlet of rooftop hazards. They spy a BILLBOARD off in the distance.            M
First one to touch old faithful over there-
-does the other team's chores for a week. Leo and Raph glare at each other.
Deal.
I'm with Leo!
Actually, I think you and I should pair up, Mikey.
You kiddin' me?! I mean, no offense Donnie, but you ain't exactly the biggest hitter on the bench.
Just trust me on this one. Music builds to a fun number as the two teams run parallel on buildings. The course requires them to work as a TEAM, throwing, catching and propelling one another from obstacle to obstacle. Leo accidentally slips, PLOWING Raph face-first into a brick wall. Raph, convinced Leo did it on purpose, uses his next opportunity to hurl Leo dangerously high and far over a billboard. The situation escalates at each juncture.
Have you been avoiding me? Barely seen you since I got home.
I been busy.
Why'd you think that?
I don't know... your brother gets to go on a world-wide training mission and you have to stay home. Might upset me too.
Are you trying to make me mad?
I'm just saying, I'd understand if you were upset. Their intensity ESCALATES.
You wouldn't understand the first thing about me, daddy's boy - OOF!. hey both trip over a duct, tumbling in a ball. They stop rolling, continue fighting.
Is that what this is about? You think Splinter likes me best?
You'd love that, wouldn't you?
So nice of you to join us, gentledudes.
And by the way, I prefer the classic military corner tuck for my bedsheets.
Whoa! Whawazzat?! The others rush over to the edge with Mikey.
You dudes see that up there? OFF HIS LOOK - We see LARGE SHADOWS moving with in a large I- BEAM CONSTRUCTION SITE. The movement is coming from one of the higher floors.
So what now, captain?
We need to come up with a plan.
Later! Raph RUNS OFF toward the action.
But Raph doesn't stop. All three look at each other. Then-
Welcome home.
The boys cross over on a large CONSTRUCTION CRANE and scale up the few more stories to the top. They stand on a scaffold underneath the floor of the activity. ON WALL - Deep CLAW MARKS are carved into the steel, much like by April and Casey's loft. Don notices.
Guys, I've got a bad feeling...
Ahh, let's take a tiny peek. They scale to the top floor. Peering over the edge.
Well, there's a good/bad news scenario for ya. CAM BEGINS TO CRANE UP from Turtles to activity on the floor.
Good news is that there are a buncha Foot Ninja gettin' the snot kicked out of `em. CAM FINISHES ON FLOOR - Showing SIX FOOT NINJAS and KARAI squaring off against a LARGE BIGFOOT-LIKE MONSTER! It tosses them around like stuffed animals.
Bad news is WHAT's kickin' the snot out of `em... ON TURTLES - As they've all now crept up to the dark corner of the floor. A FOOT NINJA gets clobbered and sails past them, and off the building.
An interesting conundrum. Do we hold dear the value of life and help the Foot regardless of our tumultuous past?
I vote for sitting back and enjoying the show.  Whaddaya say, leader boy? ON LEO - He's troubled. The burden of "leader" shouldered.
Nah. We kick butt. Raph jumps forward! Leo rolls his eyes, as all the Turtles jump into the fray. The Foot are surprised at first, and the Bigfoot Monster is confused as well. ON LEO - He stops when he comes face to face with Karai.
Who are YOU?! ON KARAI - She pauses a moment. They exchange expert katana attacks. Stalemate. She gestures to the Foot as they use this opportunity for their escape. As they leap away, Karai looks back at the Turtles...
The I-Beam is getting dented and twisted with each impact. The tussle begins to fall - whoomp, whoomp - down many flights of floors. Raph gets separated at one point, jumping off the side of the building to catch up, and swings himself back onto the bottom floor to await the others. SMASH! They fall into Raph's floor.
Nice of ya's ta join me. But the Turtles eventually get cornered. And just as the Creature closes in-
The creature stops. Confused. So are the other three turtles.
What? I saw it on a nature show once. The creature SCREAMS BACK! Boys freak out.
Better hit the tunnels, guys. Donnie uses a small prod to prop open a MANHOLE COVER. Don, Mike and Leo jump in. Leo looks back, Raph is still stewing.
Raph. Save it for another day.
Raph knows he has to go. Reluctantly he enters the sewer. The lid closes as the alley is illuminated by POLICE CHERRIES.
Y'know, it's not that bad, dudes. ON BUILDING - Actually, the place is destroyed. Dented, torn and looking like a post-night raid in WWII.
UP ANGLE on the Tower. Dead of night. No one around.
A cavernous structure. Dimly lit. High ceiling. A few odd silhouettes here and there. We hear the clicking of Winters' shoes echo as he enters.
What seems to be the problem? Karai and six Ninja are already there.
The "problem" is that we were hired to merely patrol the city and report anything "strange" to you.
 You never said anything about
Winters smirks, looking at the mouse who thinks he can take the lion. He reaches to a satchel on the floor. The Foot TENSE in anticipation. Instead... Winters comes up with a
 So, your job duties were just redefined. Congratulations on your promotion. SHINK! - Karai pulls out her To and slices the brick in mid- air. Winters STOPS and looks back over his shoulder.
We may be hired help to you, but you should never forget... we are the Foot Clan. ON WINTERS - Condescendingly finds this particularly `cute'.
Oooooooh... It sets the Foot off. They all grab their weapons, moving toward Winters. Karai flips forward, sword drawn and at Winters throat! ...as Winters stands still... and begins to LAUGH. Slowly, the thumping of FOUR SETS OF FEET lumber out of the shadows. Reveal themselves to be THE FOUR STONE GENERALS. They flank Winters, who is just loving the theatricality of it all. The Foot Ninja leap back. Winters remains confident and unmoving. Generals SMIRK at Karai and the Foot.
I believe we made a deal, Karai. I expect you to honor it.  You do understand "honor", don't you? Karai stews... unblinking stare. Of course she does.
So I don't care what part of "muscle for hire" you don't understand. I hired your muscle. Now exercise the ones attached to your feet and...  ...get back to work.
So I will double... no, no... TRIPLE your pay for your troubles.  Are we cool? ON FOOT - They just stare back, blank goggles. Probably seething inside. Winters is flanked by Generals.
Are we... cool? The Foot don't move. Tense. Karai finally nods. Terse.
Ninjas. No sense of humor.  So how did we fare? CORRIDOR ENTRANCE - a hunched SHAPE undulating in chains is wheeled into the light. Winters approaches it - chained to a high-tech and uplit pallet on the floor. We can barely make it out as being the HAIRY CREATURE from the I-beam fight.
 So it begins... It SCREAMS. Fights it's restraints. Tires. Breathing heavily. Winters approaches, safely inches away from his fanged maw. Creature suddenly lunges forward! Winters doesn't flinch. He merely grins at the creature.
 Were there any problems? AGUILA speaks in a gravelly, hardened voice. He towers over Winters by a foot. Clearly the leader of the four.
None, my lord.
 You see, now THAT'S a good soldier. You two should compare notes. Karai and Aguila stare at each other. Karai obviously not used to being handled like this.
Just what is this all about?
Oh, let's call it a scavenger hunt.  I now have the power and know-how, but I need the speed and stealth of an organization such as your own. Not to mention an organization that values discretion.
But of course.
You see, I have nine more beasts like this that should be coming to town very soon. Thirteen in all, to be exact. The Four Generals move the monster into a position on the floor ahead - into a DISK on the floor. ON CEILING - We see the top of a CAGE inserted over top, creating a cell.
But... why? Why here? Why now?
Instinct, mostly. They're animals at their core.  And they recognize something familiar in the air... in the stars.
So you go and get to know each other. And don't forget... play nice. The Generals turn and walk-push the Foot out of the door. They move to fight back, but Karai waves her hand.
Not now. Our business will be handled at a later time...
Dudes, did anyone get the license plate of the thing that hit us last night? Oi, my head... Don pours over a thick book on MONSTERS AND MYTHOLOGY.
Was it just me, or did that creature look familiar?
We coulda taken it if you slackers woulda pitched in sooner.
Fact remains, Raph, that we should have never been there in the first place.
Well, I suppose that we shoulda let Mr. Cuddly-kins continue to spread happiness throughout the city... oh wait... HE WAS A FREAKING MONSTER TRYIN' TA KILL US!!! Good call, fearless leader.
Come to think of it, it WAS pretty strange to see the Foot too. And who was that woman?
I dunno, but she sure gave Leo a run for his money.
 This is my fault now, Raph? I'm the only one who has to be responsible!
Hey, you're the "trained master", not me.
 Dudes-can-it-here-comes-Splinter. ON DOOR - Splinter walks in, HUMMING to himself.
Good morning, my sons.
Morning, sensei. Splinter makes himself a TEA. Room is SILENT. ON TURTLES - Raph and Leo GLARE at one another while they eat. Don is pouring over a THICK BOOK while Mikey sits with his forehead on the table.
If anyone needs me, I'll be watching my stories.
Hothead.
Splinter-junior.
My sons, what- Splinter's eyes go wide. He looks at his boys listening to the TV intently. Mikey nurses his sore head.
I believe you boys have some explaining to do...
Leonardo, I am most disappointed in you. You are the leader of your brothers. I was counting on you to bring order to the chaos of this family.
But Master Splinter, how can I be expected to do so when Ra-
There are no excuses when you are the Leader, my student. ON LEO - Biting his tongue. Hard.
But the involvement of the Foot and their mysterious leader worries me.
I'm personally worried about a monster running around the streets of New York. But hey, that's just me. Don elbows Mikey back in line.
We hafta go out and find who's responsible for this. There ain't no other solution.
Raphael, there are better ways to use your skills in ninjitsu. Fact- gathering. Analysis. Observation. Direct contact should only be your last resort.
Wow, sounds... exciting.
Save the brute vigilante junk for that Nightwing guy.
"Nightwatcher".
Whatever. Raph stands and exits the room. The others stay silent as we-
QUICK SHOTS - Nightwatcher gearing up. ightwatcher emerges from a MAN HOLE. Walks to a long- forgotten and shadowed underside of a BRIDGE. He points up with a REMOTE - chirp! Slowly, his MOTORBIKE begins to lower on retractable grappling hooks.
Various shots of Nightwatcher tearing all over the city. On bike and on foot. Angry. Trying to work it out of his system. He's swallowed it all up to this point... getting harder.
Aggressive and driving music. Various shots of the Stone Generals capturing a laundry list of CREATURES that are coming into the city. See the tech, detail and precision that the Winters' operation works. Foot Ninja act as living "tracking devices" around the city. - The Generals capture a Sloth-like creature, jumping in throughout rafters above. The Foot try to help by blocking exits. - The Generals capture a werewolf-like creature in the high- speed subway tunnels. The Foot maneuver the subway car. - General Mono takes on a large scale YETI-like monster. A WWE-sized match set in a large abandoned warehouse. - Close calls, as humans come close to seeing the monsters... but rarely do. We see small house pets swiped away. Fleeting glimpses of limbs, claws and teeth in the shadows all over NYC. Meat trucks torn open and their contents "stolen". - Intermix quick shots of Generals and collars clamping, cells locking, etc.
You sure you don't want to spar a bit?
April is dressed in work-out gear on a grouping of floor mats. She twirls a wooden KATANA as part of a floor routine. Wow - she's actually pretty good! Casey eats a bag of chips with one hand, does curls with a dumbbell with the other.
Nah. Ever since you started with the blade weapons you, um... you kinda scare me.
Suit yourself.  Case?
Yeah?
Yeah. Sure.  You? April thinks just as much.
Yeah. They sit on that for a moment. Casey leans in for a kiss. April doesn't notice. Awkward. Casey changes his mind.
 I'm going outside for some air.
 Be safe.
Funny how you jerks don't care about crossing the line `til someone else does it... all over yer HEAD! Night hurls him back into a roof access door, denting it. Raph's loving this. Walks to the Burglar and picks him up.
EMPTY_LINE
Boy, oh boy, did YOU pick the wrong night to be a criminal... Night cocks his fist just as-
Hey champ. You think you're being a little rough on the guy? ight slowly turns around. Menacing. Casey's taken aback.
Are you that Nightwatcher fella?  A little smaller than I expected.
 Case? No way!
 I'm talkin' to you, pal. You think you own these rooftops? Well, lemme teach you a thing'r two.  Class is Pain 101. Meet your instructor... Casey Jones. It's getting serious. Casey's bat is suddenly wrapped by Night's CHAIN, and pulled down. Raph's visor flips up.
Raph?! Is that you?!  What-what are you doing?!
Are you pretending to be... ON RAPH - His eyes look around for an answer. Nothing.
Why would you-  -oh.  So that would mean... 
Raph smiles... the first genuine one he's had in a long time.
Yep. IN BG - The Burglar tries to get away. Casey and Raph both spy him. Look at each other. Mischievously grin as we-
I dunno, I just got tired of the "nothing". Sitting around waiting for some disaster to cross our paths. Of us battling Utroms and Triceratons or any other friggin' creature... when there was still some guy gettin' mugged 100 feet above the lair. Just didn't seem right. `Specially if we had the means to do somethin' about it. Raph twirls a billy bat between his fingers. Stops.
And we did... but turns out I was the only one who was willing to do it, tho. So I just saved up, bought and tweaked a sweet bike, fitted the costume and began moonlighting.
Papers called me "The Nightwatcher", so I went with it.
"And a legend was born". So what was your handle before that?
I kinda liked "The Midnight Marauder"...
 Stick with Nightwatcher, ninja boy.
Pfft. You kiddin' me? Leo's been away for, like, forever. And the other two are so wrapped up in that party business they'd never notice.
So what about you? How's things with April? Haven't seen ya's since you two moved in together...
They're good... I guess. I dunno, seems like all I do lately is just make her upset. She used to laugh so much... now it's mostly just working all day, and coming home to point out how I'm a screw up.  She doesn't like me doing this. And I know she's pretending to not know I'm out tonight. But she knows. And she knows I know she knows.  Life just kinda got complicated suddenly... y'know?
Yer tellin' me... Casey looks at his old bud.
Raph?
Yeah?
Nice to see ya, man. Raph acknowledges. The moment is broken by a HORRIBLE SHRIEK!
What was that?! They both spring to their feet and run to the back of the roof. They hear the scream AGAIN off in the distance.
For old time's sake?
What the shell. ON RAPH - He stops, mid-replacement of his helmet.
The two run and leap across the rooftops. Two vigilantes searching for the source of the scream. They finally reach a point where they don't hear it anymore. EDGE OF ROOFTOP - They look out. Silent.
I think we lost it.
It's gotta be around here somewhere. SCREEEEECH!!! - A large VAMPIRE-LIKE CREATURE flies up from the alley below and spreads its 30-foot wings!
It's about to attack when - THUNKA-THUNKA-THUNKA - it's drilled with TRANQUILIZER DARTS from below! CHOOOM! - A grappling hook winds around its feet. The Creature struggles but is pulled down hard!
Did I mention we ran into a monster last week?
The freakin' FOOT?!  What about the walking statues? Were you going to mention THOSE?!
Nope. Those are a first for me too.  We can take `em. One of the generals effortlessly picks up a TRASH DUMPSTER and wallops the Creature with one blow.
On second thought... The Generals put the Creature in a cell. Wheel it to a TRANSPORTER VEHICLE as it drives away. They're just about to leave when-
Witnesses. Aguila snarls and fires the tranq gun! Raph dives in front of Casey, taking the hit himself!
 Fetch. Gato SMILES as the other three board a Transport Vehicle.
Not good. Raph takes out NINJA SMOKE PELLETS and throws them on the roof - FWOOM! When the smoke clears, Casey is standing there alone! Raph is 10 feet away as Casey flinches and takes off too.
You ever heard of smoke pellets?
Hey - you're the ninja, not me! BOOM! - Gato lands up on the roof and quickly gives chase! They can't lose him, even when they drop to street level.
Raph and Casey are tearing ass through the alleyways, trying to escape the thing that's close on their tail.
Bingo. Raphael quickly dashes left through TRAFFIC! DOWN ALLEY BEHIND THEM - BOOM BOOM BOOM - We see Gato bounding down the wall, almost in a four-legged run, occasionally jumping off walls at incredible speeds! A true jaguar. It leaps through the traffic as well.
What are we gonna do, Raph? WHAT
Hop on. Raph leaves Gato in a cloud of dust... but not for long. Gato clamors along... keeping up with the weaving bike! In the fray, Casey looses his mask... as it gets trampled by Gato. It's an insane chase, with Raph trying to lose him as Casey swings his bat, trying to stave off the Stone General. Suddenly - THUNK! A circular OBSIDIAN BLADE lands in his wooden bat. He looks at it.
Um, Raph? Raph sees the blade! They manage to switch positions in mid- ride, with Casey driving and Raph in back. Raph throws kicks and punches at their pursuer when he closes in. The chase takes them to a PARKING GARAGE as they circle upwards, Gato jumping from car to car, still on their tails! ROOFTOP - They're trapped. He doesn't have a hope... aside from jumping the bike to the next roof!
He lets out the clutch as they make the jump! WHAM! - Sparks and crucial pieces fly off the undercarriage. They both look back at Gato up and away at the top of the structure.
Oh crap. Casey guns it - BUT THE BIKE DOESN'T WORK ANYMORE - as Gato is in mid-air, taking off. Casey grabs the weakening Raph and drags him off.
Okay, so it was great seein' ya again, Raph.
Gotta get you someplace safe, pal. And then, then I need to go buy some new undies.
April is finishing up with her workout. She hears the fire escape outside of the building and the window slide open.
Casey, I think we need to talk.  I don't want- whoa. OFF HER LOOK - Casey is standing there, bracing the near- unconscious Raph, now without his Nightwatcher garb.
Could use a little... help here...
My compliments to zee chef.
Anyone for dessert?
EMPTY_LINE
The phone suddenly rings. Don rushes over to the jury-rigged payphone on the wall.
Cowabunga-dude.  Waita-slow down April. What happened to Raph?
ON WINDOW - One by one, Leo, Don and Mikey slip into the window. They spot Raph on the futon, being tended to by April
Whoa... I am in the wrong line of work. Nice pad, kids. Don immediately starts checking Raph out.
His vital signs seem to be okay.  Pupil dilation is normal. Raph weakly pushes Donnie's head away.
Temper is normal too.  He's going to be fine. Health-wise, I mean. Otherwise, he's still the same old Raph.
Some sort of stone... probably obsidian, I think.
It can't be.
What can't be, April? April sits down on the floor with the disk. Trying to figure things out. Casey leans down to her.
Would it help things if I said that we were being chased by a one of those statues you collected for that Winters guy? ON APRIL - Her mouth is agape.
I'd say that's a big ten-four.
And I suppose that bringing up the thirty-foot flying monster would probably just push this over the edge, huh? ON APRIL - She slowly turns to Casey. Floored.
What are you talking about Casey?
Just some story this Winters guy told us. It all started down in South America. Long before the Ashmecks and the Macaroons.
Azteks and Mayans.
That's what i said.
Sit down, Jones.  So there was this guy call Yaotl... CAM PANS TO THE RIGHT - As it passes a FG element, the screen dips to black. We hear sounds of a violent BATTLE. Monsters shrieking. Blades clashing. April's retelling Winters' story.
Well?! WHAT NEXT?!!!
No one knows. The legend stops there.
But it's just a legend. Donnie studies the tranq dart under a magnifying glass of April's.
The micro-tech of this dart is astounding. The molybdenum is of a grade only found in a few select markets... not to mention it's current stock is going for a little more than two-grand an ounce right now.
 What? I dabble in the market.
So what do we have? We have someone with a lot of money.
Access to technology... and the means to produce it to exact specs.
Not to mention having a keen interest in these monsters... and them four stone jokers.
If you ask me, it all somehow points to Winters Corp.
How do you figure that, Donnie? Donatello looks up with MAGNIFYING GOGGLES on. Sarcastic.
Hello? "Genius"?  Well, that, and the fact that this part has a Winters Corporation logo on it.
Do you think he's trying to recreate the events from back then?
Well, what would you do with an army of monsters?
Well, aside from having your own wrestling league, I dunno... MAYBE
Do bad guys still try to do that?
Yes, however they're usually mortgage re-fi companies.
Guys! It's a legend!
Is that "legend" like the ginormous freakin' hairball that attacked us?
Or "legend" like the moving statues and flying creature that attacked me n' Casey?
Okay. Fine. I'll help for now... until we prove you're all insane.
Or until we prove Winters is up to something more than collecting art.
I'll work with April and see if these Stars of Kikin she told us about can give us any clues.
I say we just storm the castle and face this jerk in person!
Raph, that would be the worst idea yet. We hang back. Analyze. Formulate a plan, THEN storm your castle. Are we clear? Tense stare off between Raph and Leo. Raph moves anyway. Casey stops him. Quieter moment.
Raph. Don't do it, man.
Yeah... whatever. - and bolts out the door.
We see the same stars we've been tracking move closer into alignment... only now it means so much more to us. CAM LOWERS, as we find ourselves-
Think this is all of them, Donnie. ON DOOR - April walks in, holding a 3-foot-high stack of yellowed documents.
I cleaned out my archives on ancient South America. Might have found something useful. She takes out a hand-drawn map.
A map of the stars, as recorded by an Aztec Shaman. They pinpoint the location of the Stars of Kikin... even though the names changed.
For use in an Aztec calendar.  So, if we can cross-reference our current star field, positioning of the Stars of Kikin and backtrack positioning based off of the Aztec
-along with taking into account the point of origin of the first occurrence, we should know where another portal could take place.  Max, what are you up to?
Leonardo, time cannot be moved faster by wearing a groove in our floor.
Seriously, dude. We're all stressed. Try to chill.
You're playing video games on the possible eve of Armageddon, Mikey.
Where's Raph?
Leonardo, a true leader knows the virtue of patience... and when to stop exercising it.
We're almost done, Leo. You might want to go get him... If you can find him, that is. Leo looks at Splinter, clearly feeling leadership pressure and Raph's absence makes it worse. He leaves the lair.
Relatively peaceful. A few freighters off in the distance. Tall dry grass rustles in the wind, as we see a- - TREASURE HUNTER - A stocky middle-aged FAT MAN with a clicking metal detector. Big goofy earphones cover his ears.
Pfft. Figgers. He turns to leave the beach.
Lousy metal detector. "Happy Anniversary" present, my big fat keister. He HURLS the can of sardines over his shoulder. Only, instead of hearing a tiny SPLASH from it hitting the water... we hear a snarling CRUNCH and TINNY-CHEWING. The man stops in his tracks. He turns his head around. CLOSE ON - Man's face, eyes wide in shock. Cam pulls back, slowing just as the crown of a GNARLY SKULL crests the bottom of the screen. PTOOEY! - The tin "key" is spit back onto the sand. He bolts.
It's dark. Barely lit in the hallways of the top private floors of Winters Tower. The camera travels the long and ornate hallways. Decorated in a different sense than the main building... in a sense of family, tradition and legacy. ictures spanning centuries in age. Some photos. Some portraits. Families. Loved ones.
To picking up the pieces.
What is it? Winters doesn't turn around. Stays in E-FG. Cam adjusts to show the shape of GENERAL AGUILA in the doorway.
Two creatures remain, my lord. A long beat. Winters closes his eyes.
Well, by all means then. Let's finish it. ON AGUILA - He squints. Deep in thought and not sharing.
Nightwatcher runs along the rooftops. He pauses. He lifts his visor to feel the night air on his face. He sees WINTERS TOWER in the distance... practically egging him on.
Classic Diner design, Pete's Diner is closed for the evening. The last light goes out.
A greasy DINER COOK finishes cleaning up the tables. He suddenly hears a noise in the back. Big CLANK. KITCHEN - He walks to the back. He hears the noise... now from inside the WALK-IN FREEZER. He slowly approaches it. ANOTHER NOISE. He moves to open INSIDE OF FREEZER - the door slowly opens. The man's face peers in. His eyes go WIDE. He SCREAMS!!!
Nightwatcher hears the scream. Runs to the source and looks down at Pete's Diner. Sees the commotion inside. Uses his bolo chain and a power cable to form a ZIP LINE down the street as-
Hey there little fella. All that commotion for just little ole y- The Demon SCREAMS! It jumps Night, slamming him to the floor behind a row of tables!
 Yeah! That's what I thought! Don't mess with the Nightwatcher! Night turns. His helmet is still on. He hits his LIGHTS on the side of his head to see through the thick smoke. He finds the DINER COOK huddled behind the counter. Night looks scary.
Pl-pl-please don't hurt me!
Whattaya talkin' about? I JUST
Please, sir. I have kids. Night looks around. He sees the CASH REGISTER on the floor. He picks it up, puts it on the counter.
There ya go, pal. Make sure this is safe. HEY - YOU HEARIN' ME?
ll he sees is a panicked man and the large shape of Nightwatcher standing over him, holding the register. CLOSE ON LEO - He's fuming. Staring down at Nightwatcher. The frustration of the last few days pent up inside of him.
This night just keeps gettin' better n' better...
Nice try, amateur. Leo crosses the busy street while still maintaining his secrecy. Zip lines through power lines, avoids an oncoming bus, and flips back onto a cable. e swings and manages to snag Nightwatcher in mid-leap!
Oof! You're a heavy boy, aren't you? They both land on a fire escape, as Night clamors to the top. Leo wastes no time in catching up.
Okay, someone's been training pretty hard. It begins to spit rain - and becomes a FRANK MILLER DOWNPOUR.
Night reaches an area that's a DEAD END. One side of the buildings has a LARGE LETTERED SIGN facing away. Fills the rooftop with silhouettes. No choice but to turn around... ...as Leo slows to a stop at the other end of the building.
I want you to know that I appreciate your intentions. But you can't change the world like this. INSIDE HELMET - All we hear is rain pouring. Raph can't hear Leo - just sees him wagging his finger at him.
EMPTY_LINE
 ...so I'm going to give you one chance to just walk away and stop this vigilante nonsense. Leo unsheathes his two katanas. Raph can't hear him.
 Okay, Leo. Wanna play? Nightwatcher drops TWIN BOLOS. He twirls them with expertise... then motions for Leo to fight. Charge at each other, running through the rain, weapons drawn. They fight. Hard. And with expertise. Two masters duking it out. It surprises Leo. It fills Night with more adrenaline. There's a break. They circle like tigers. Renewing attacks. Night knows every one of Leo's moves, and counters in turn.
What? How did you- ...then he starts goading him on. Pushing Leo. Prodding. Making him MAD. ...and then Leo fights back. HARD. Night can't keep up. Leo uses every bit of his control, restraint and expertise. He surgically slices the bind under Night's helmet. He jumps on top of the vigilante.
Goodnight, dark prince. Leo UPPERCUTS Night, knocking his helmet off! His face falls... IT'S RAPHAEL! Leo pales.
R-raph?
He mule kicks Leo back. Leo tumbles back, still in shock. They yell at each other through the pouring rain.
You're so friggin' smug! You think the world revolves around YOU, dontcha? That we couldn't POSSIBLY survive without the mighty and powerful Leonardo to guide us through our problems, HUH?!
I was training! Training to be a better leader! For you! Why do you hate me for that?!
...and whoever said I wanted to be led? I shoulda gone on that training!
Well, big brother, I'd have to disagree with you on that one. Raph takes a ready stance. Leo does too. And they fight. Brother vs. brother. Katana vs. Sai. Technique vs. Heart.
In another part of the city, the Generals have caught the Demon from Pete's Diner. As they carry him to the caravan, their RADIO COMM goes off.
The Foot report of strange activity five blocks north of your location.
The final creature.
Camera RISES UP until we reach the rooftop where Leo and Raph continue to duke it out in the rain. They battle. In the end, Raph becomes an uncontrollable ball of anger, unleashing everything on Leo.
CLOSE ON LEO - A SHADOW suddenly falls over him. He looks up to see the FOUR GENERALS surrounding him. He tries to fight back... but is too wiped from Raph. GATO POV - "reading" Leo on the ground. He frowns.
It is neither monster nor human. CLOSE ON AGUILA - He manages a small smile.
Then he shall perfectly serve our purposes... let us inform our commander that the final creature has been captured. ON RAPH - He sees the commotion from afar... as Leo gets TRANQUILIZED with the Generals' dart cannon.
Raph runs closer as the Generals lower to the ground and drive off. Raph jumps from rooftop to rooftop to try and catch his brother.
Raph gets weak and collapses to his knees on the roof. The sun begins to rise. He has to return to the sewer.
April and Don are poring over books at the kitchen. Mikey paces behind them. Raph storms in, barrels past them all.
Raphael? What is the matter?
Raphael! Kneel. Raph stops. Breathing heavy. Falls in line - walking to Splinter and dropping to his knees in front of his father.
I did something... I did something really stupid, Master Splinter.
Go on...
Raphael. You always bear the world's problems on your shoulders. It is an admirable quality when you are a protector of others... plinter gently lays a hand on Raph's shoulder.
But you must realize that while, at times, you may not be my favorite student, it does not mean that you are my least favorite son. Raphael looks up. Having not thought of it that way.
You are strong, passionate and loyal to a fault. These are the merits of a great leader as well... but only when tempered with compassion and humility.
But Master Splinter, I messed up big tonight... I mean BIG. Splinter chews on this.
Leonardo? R
 Yes. Splinter is grim. Nods. But he moves on.
Well then, I believe your brothers may be in need of a leader. Raphael looks up. Finally, his shot. He holds his SAIS in one hand, and his BOLO CHAIN in the other. Ninja Turtle vs. Nightwatcher. He grips them both hard. He drops the chain.
Thank you... father. Mikey bursts in the door, frantic.
Dudes. I think you're gonna want to check this out.
April and Donnie sift through their charts and calculations.
So, the first time that this portal was opened, the Stars of Kikin aligned... (sketches on high tech
...and that's why it occurred in that specific South American region.  Now if we take into account the continual rotation of the Earth since then, as well as the gradual celestial shift that's happened and been recorded over... well, over the course of that mountain of books over there... we now know our new location. Donnie's drawn a NEW LINE from the alignment of the stars. April elbows Casey to wake him up.
Precisely at 40.748 degrees latitude and -073.985 Degrees longitude. ON OTHERS - HUH?! Mikey air - calculates math in bg.
New York City.
Winters Tower.
And the alignment is due to occur in precisely-  - well... tonight. It sits in the room. Heavy.
But without Leo... what do we do? No one answers. Splinter looks to Raph. Raph steps up.
We rescue our brother... and save New York City. Splinter stands to his side.
Together.
The lobby has changed. Shots establishing the jury-rigged nature of Winters Tower. - The large Aztec-like calendar on the lobby floor suddenly SPLITS and slides open, creating a 100 foot circle in the middle. Underneath is the TOWERS CELL BASEMENT.
Quick shots of April and Casey gearing up. Casey with his off- the-shelf sporting gear. April with sleek-looking Japanese combat gear and weaponry. They both emerge from their rooms, dressed to kill. Casey's jaw drops as we scope out April.
Wow.
 Picked it up on my last trip to Japan. You... like it?
Oh... oh yeah. They share the moment. Seeing what they forgot about each other when they first met. It's enough for them to smile.
Where's your mask?
 Mask? What mask? April runs into the other room and comes back with her hands behind her back. She takes out a NEW MASK for Casey - cool, crisp and a badass paintjob.
No way...
I was saving it for our anniversary.
That's our ride.
You know I ain't much on speeches.
I love you man.
Don't push it.  April, this is going to be dangerous. You sure you're in?
I feel responsible, fellas. I found the Generals for him.
Nice an' incognito there, Mikey.
Well, I didn't see you offering any suggestions... besides-  - a true ninja can hide in plain sight, my son!
I heard that! Van takes off as the CAMERA SLOWS in the street, watching it drive away. NYC civilians point to the sky, worried. PUSH IN on a TV/STEREO STORE WINDOW - Simon's Electronics. ON TV - Broadcasting a news report. Weather alert. Black clouds brew over head.
Winters stands with Four Generals in his office, overseeing the portal. Ready.
Karai walks down the center path of the garden, flanked by a DOZEN FOOT NINJA. She motions for them to take position.
As ordered - no one gets in. No one interferes. No one bears witness. SUDDENLY - the security alarm from the front gate BUZZES. Karai waits a beat. It buzzes again. She walks to the SECURITY PANEL by the front gate. N MONITOR - We see CASEY standing there, obscured by a LARGE WOODEN CRATE IN FRONT OF HIM. Karai coldly opens the gate.
May I help you?
Yeah, hey, I was supposed   to drop this off for Mr. Winters.   If I don't get this done, I am   majorly in the doghouse. You know   what I'm sayin', right? Right? The two stare at each other as the CAM ANGLES BEHIND KARAI - she's holding a KATANA SWORD behind her back! AM DOLLIES OVERHEAD as we see that Casey is packing MAJOR sports gear "heat" on his end too. Both don't let on.
Please come in, then.
Really!?  I mean, "but of course". Casey wheels the crate inside. The gate closes only KARAI HAS NOW DISAPPEARED! Casey opens the front hatch, revealing Don, Raph, Mikey, April and Splinter.
Let's NEVER do this again. (waves hand in front of nose, glares at MIkey) And who did that?!
What?! Why does everyone always call ME out? A long beat. Then...
I apologize my sons. Everyone looks at sheepish Splinter. A beat. Suddenly- WIDER - The empty garden begins to move. CREEPY, as DOZENS OF FOOT NINJA begin to rise out of the shadows and slink toward our heroes, surrounding them. KARAI makes a dramatic entrance, landing in front of April and Casey. Tense beat.
I suppose this is where we all take out our sharp and pointy things?
You suppose correctly.
I am SO gonna enjoy this...
I had the situation under control.
Guys! Front door is open. Now! They all charge the front door!
Winters is happy. He looks up to the heavens. Checks a time piece. Winters begins chanting ANCIENT MAGICK/SPELLS. Looks up through the opening in the middle of the building.
Finally... finally! ON GENERALS - they're still. Emotionless. The light sequence gets to Leo's cell... it doesn't light up.
What? His mind reels. Looks down at the cells. Nothing. Then it hits him like a ton of bricks. He turns to the Generals...
What did you do?!
What do we do, dudes?!
I'm working on it. Raph grips his sais with renewed strength. Casey looks around, putting things together mentally. Tension builds!
We get ready for round two. ON CASEY IN CORNER - He reaches into his back, takes out a hockey stick and - SMASH!!! - kills a LOBBY VASE. Suddenly, sirens blare as the OUTSIDE BUILDING SECURITY SHUTTERS SLAM DOWN just like in Act I! The Ninjas are locked out!
Yeah! Everyone high fives Casey. Except April. She smiles.
Nice work, Jones.
I have my moments...
Look! OFF DON'S LOOK - the mayhem builds at the other end of the vast lobby. The cells are glowing. The portal worsens.
And that would be the swirling vortex to another world, I assume.
Leo! Is that you? RAARRGH! - A claw swoops out. He dodges out of the way.
I guess that would be a "no". ON RAPH - He finds Leo!
Out of the way, please.
Hey buddy! Come on, man. Leo, please wake up! Raph holds Leo in his lap on the floor. Looks like Leo is DEAD. Raph's head falls low, as...
Wh-wh-what took you s-so long? WIDER - Leo is alive. Coughs and slowly gets his strength back. Stands up. He and Raph look at each other. Leo can only imagine what Raph's been through to rescue him. A beat.
Listen, I - I'm sorry.
ANGLE UP - As WINTERS is thrown out the window of his elevator office! He heads straight for a sword wielding BRONZE STATUE... particularly the sword part. Closer... closer... and... ..just misses it. WHUMP! He crashes onto the floor.
ON GROUP - They just stare at him. Back up to the office, nearly 150 feet above them. ON BALCONY ABOVE - Aguila looks down. Snarls.
Is he... is he dead? Mikey takes out a hockey stick from Casey's bag and pokes Winters' limp body. Nothing.
Yup. He's WAY dead, dude. WINTERS GASPS FOR AIR! Startles everyone in the room. ON EVERYONE - Their faces all drop as Winters stands up in his mini-crater, brushes himself off and is perfectly fine! Winters' mind is racing a mile a minute. Doesn't even notice those around him.
Fascinating...
Mister Winters. We mean you no harm.
No harm?! Whatever! I'm about to give you piercin's in places you never imagined if you don't tell us what's going on.
We were so close... so close. Winters collapses on the floor. Head in hands.
This was our chance. We could have changed it all.
We know everything Max. We know you're trying to recreate what Yaotl started 3000 years ago. N WINTERS - He looks up. Sees April. Exhausted, as we-
The same red-tinted battlefield we left in Winter's flashback. Monsters are leaping through the hoards.
There are things, Miss O'Neil, no one could possibly know... Camera pushes in on YAOTL and his Four Generals high on a hill, surveying the action. ON YAOTL - He takes off his helmet... IT'S WINTERS HIMSELF.
It was I who stood on that battlefield all those years ago. Winters/Yaotl looks out at the death and destruction. He looks shocked, surprised. A SHADOW falls over Winters body. He looks up - it's a ceremonial SHAMAN from their enemies' camp.
And we had to pay a price. The Shaman makes hand gestures, chanting. Winters is pulled up in the air, and in a crackle of red electricity, we see him become... grayer. N GENERALS - Same electricity. Different effect. They scream, slowly turned into STONE. Cracks form on their bodies, light shooting out of it.
We were cursed that day. My four comrades-in-arms were turned into stone.
Cursed to live on this Earth... immobile... yet fully aware at all times to ponder the crimes we've committed. ON WINTERS - He stands on the battlefield. Alone. As he walks, the CAM MOVES around him. During this, we X-DISSOLVE BETWEEN A FEW SELECT TIME PERIODS between then and now.
My curse was to live... forever. To feel the pain of losing love time and time again. Of boredom. The pain... of time. ACK IN PRESENT DAY. Winters stops walking...
We were doomed to live this way until, as the Shaman put it, "you corrected the mistakes of your past".  That's what this is about. Penance, Miss O'Neil. Finally getting a chance to right our wrongs.
Our master fails to include crucial points in his tale. ON SHADOWS - The Four Generals thump forward.
He fails to discuss the petrified agony of three thousand years.
Of the torture of taking CENTURIES to merely blink an eye!
Of watching the erosion of your own body throughout centuries.
So, while our great leader basked in the warmth of the sun and the glory of fresh air... we rotted in the stone hell that lasted throughout Wmillennia.
My brothers, I-
WE ARE NO BROTHERS TO YOU! Our brotherhood was broken the day that you condemned us to this eternity.
And now, our Master has tired of feeding on the nectar of life. Of loving his entire life. Of FEELING.  So he prefers to end it all. End HIS "misery" at the expense of ours. Aguila walks to the cells. The portal writhes in the bg, sinking into the floor.
But thanks to his cunning, his technology, we are now capable of LIVING... we have now become-  - gods.
And we shall finish what we began all those years ago. We will finally have our victory.
Even with one monster still free, the curse can never be broken!
 Join us. Join us Yaotl, and live a life eternal with us at your side! ON WINTERS - He waits. A beat.
Never. This was our opportunity! We were wrong! Don't you understand?!
And you are weak.
 Destroy them. Karai sees Winters' condition. Clearly getting screwed by the very beings who have been nothing but hostile toward her and her Foot Clan. She suddenly GESTURES WITH HER HANDS - military/ninja style.
What does THAT mean?
It means we're going to help you. WIDER - 40 Foot Ninja disperse around out of the building, leaving Karai and 4 Foot Ninja behind.
My soldiers will find the thirteenth monster. And you will bring it back here. Hurry - we don't have much time. Karai runs off. April looks over at Winters. He nods, still hurting. April takes off after Karai, leaving Casey behind with the Four Foot. They run out into the garden, just in time to see the other Foot disappear into the night.
I got shotgun! BACK ON GENERALS - They move toward Winters! The Turtles quickly look at one another. Know what they have to do. They all leap in the way, standing between Winters and his backstabbing Generals. Aguila moves forward to Leo. Raph steps in beside him, defiant. Then Mikey. Then Don.
If you mess with one of us-  -you mess with all of us. Aguila smiles at their chutzpa.
Challenge accepted. 97   The Portal worsens behind them. Sound and sight. The Eight 97 are ready to fight. ...and the fight BEGINS! The Turtles leap, pounce and strike with all the exuberance and intensity they've ever had. Winters moves to help the Turtles. Suddenly a WALKING STICK across his chest stops him!
They must face them alone. As brothers. Winters debates it in his head for a beat - WHAM! - a tentacle from the portal slams down next to him!
Alright. We have more important things to do! ON PORTAL - A small DEMON makes its way out of the portal! Winters runs and flips through the air and then CLOBBERS IT with his bare hands, sending it back down! He lands on the other side.
Help me push the cells into the portal! Splinter does as the two masters also manage to lay some smackdown on any emerging creature out of the portal.
This has got to be the suckiest vehicle to save the world with. - as the Cowabunga Carl van roars around the corner. Tinkling musical notes chime along with the speed. Appropriately lame and embarrassing. INSIDE VAN - Casey drives, as April, Karai and Four Foot are crammed in the back. Awkward silence.
So... anybody from out of town?
Come to daddy. MOMENTS LATER - SMASH! - Leo steps out, ready for action. Strapped with a dozen swords tucked all over his body. He pulls them out randomly as needed throughout the fight.
Sensei! How you guys doing?! ON SPLINTER AND WINTERS - The portal is pulling the cells in. About five more to go. Splinter also flips around and takes out another demon trying to escape. Splinter actually seems to be having FUN.
Wonderful, my son. WONDERFUL! BACK WITH APRIL AND CASEY - Rush the streets of NYC.
My troops have located the final monster. At the harbor docks.
Oh, I got this one covered. Casey GUNS IT for the pier, music tinkling. CAM ZOOMS AHEAD THROUGH THE STREETS until it reaches the pier. CAM CRANES over the harbor warehouses until we see - - the 13th monster! Looks like a land-locked GIANT CROCODILE. It appears unconscious - a hundred or so TRANQ DARTS sticking out of it's back. The Van pulls onto the scene.
Huh. Now there's somethin' you don't see every day... They pile out of the van.
 Well, I guess we have to figure out how to get handsome here back to Winters' Tower.
We should tie it to the van and drag it back.
Wow. You're... hard core. ON CREATURE - A Foot Ninja stands next to the lifeless body. As he turns his head he doesn't see THE CREATURE'S EYE OPEN!
Incoming! ON VAN - As they open the doors to act as shields as - THUNKA THUNK THUNK - darts stick in the door! ON CREATURE - He's now standing... and dying to chase something. It GROWLS/SCREAMS as they all pile into the van! Casey immediately throws it in reverse and starts peeling back on the pier, barely staying out of the clutches of the creature smashing the pier in front of them. Get to the end and spin the vehicle around.
They better hurry with that last monster!
I'm sure my man Casey's got it all under control...
That's what I'm afraid of. BACK WITH VAN - CLOSE ON CASEY'S FACE - As he's screaming his guts out.
WIDER - We see that he's on top of the Van, acting as LIVE BAIT to attract the creature! It's working too! The creature pounces along like an awkward greyhound run. April drives.
What are you doing in here?!
Ran outta food. They all look out the back window as the creature pounds closer and closer... BACK IN LOBBY - The Turtles and Generals are at a standstill. Turtles all get thrown into a pile between the Generals.
Listen. I'm the last guy to sound like a TV cartoon, but I think we need to work together.
Teamwork. The more you know... Don clocks Mikey behind the head.
Yes. Yes, my sons. The Generals can't keep up. It's enough to distract them to make mistakes the TMNT take advantage of. ON WINTERS - Sees the portal light beginning to SHRINK! Because of the TMNT's moves, the Generals are now on the precipice of the Portal, being pulled back. They struggle to stand. The brothers look at each other. The place is violent with a whirlwind and screaming Monsters.
So who wants ta call it a day?
I'm in.
Affirmative.
Roger dodger, dude. The   TMNT launch into their FINAL ATTACK - perfectly in synch and   take out each of the Generals, knocking them back into the   PORTAL! They're plucked out of mid-air by cloudy tendrils and   pulled back! The Turtles collapse onto the floor, back to the portal. Silent. Splinter runs over to them.
My sons, I am so proud of you all. Then - BOOM! - the Generals' ARMS slam onto the ridge of the portal - BEGINNING TO CLIMB OUT! The Turtles jump back.
Silly children. We are immortals made of stone! The Earth has only BEGUN to feel our wrath! The brothers are screwed. They can't stop the Generals. Until- BEHIND TURTLES - Glowing headlights grow larger. Closer. As - KERSMASH!!! The Van flies through the lobby, musical chime and all, being trailed by the Creature! April clips a corner as the vehicle spins out of the path. he Creature tries to stop, but can't on the marble floor. It falls, sliding, clicking its claws trying to stop!
Winters dives in and pushes the Turtles out of way as the Creature flies in and knocks the Generals back into the Portal! The Cloud Tendrils grab a hold of it and pull it back into the Portal! ON STARS - The Stars move out of alignment, ending the cycle. ON PORTAL - It begins to close. The Generals struggle to get out, only now, we see they are HUMAN... their curse broken... and an eternity of pain and suffering ahead of them.
I thought he'd never shut up. WIDER - The portal EXPLODES in a upwards funnel. Silence.
 Oh. I, uh - HUHN! - Casey tosses Karai off of him. April's eye cocks.
Don't try to tell me for one second that you didn't enjoy tha- Casey just grabs her, cutting her off and they kiss. Like they should have been kissing all along. They stop. Noses close. Smile. They pull apart, revealing MIKEY standing there. Watching them all gooey-eyed.
Raph and Leo look at each other. A beat. Then hug. Brothers again. Dialogue would just ruin this moment. Splinter walks over to them. CAM ADJUSTS to show Karai and the Foot Ninja standing there. Silence. Finally, Karai steps forward -
You are every bit the warriors I was informed you were. You have passed.
Passed what?
You know us?
I've known OF you for some time.  Savor your victory tonight. For soon we will have further business together.
What kind of business?
The kind that involves familiar faces from your past... ON TURTLES - They all look at each other.
She doesn't mean... They look back - and see Karai and the Foot have DISAPPEARED. Raph looks over at WINTERS. He's hunched over in the corner. Can't tell what's going on. They walk over slowly.
Winters? ON WINTERS - Looks like he's sobbing. They get concerned. Then the sobs turn to LAUGHING. He stands up. His hand is spotted red with his M own BLOOD from a cut on his cheek.
I'm never usually that happy to be bleeding.
You would be if you were an immortal who couldn't bleed for three thousand years... Winters looks at all the Turtles.
Thank you. Thank you from the bottom of my heart. You've made a very old man, very very happy.
So, um, what happens now?
Okay... just a little bit creepy.
Raph comes to Splinter's room.
You wanted to see me Sensei?
Sit down, Raphael.
Thank you, Master Splinter, for your guidance.  I can only hope that one day, I will be able to begin the next stage of my training like Leo. Splinter smiles. Reaches into a box and takes out a similar MEDALLION to the one given to Leonardo.
That, my son, you already have.
A ROCKIN' NUMBER PLAYS as we cap everyone's adventures. Splinter walks through the lair. It's empty. He walks past their "trophy room". He places the ornate head of WINTERS' CANE on the shelf.
Ahh. Double chocolate fudge.
So we're cool with the whole Nightwatcher thing?
Yeah, we're cool. Our secret, bro.  You got rid of the stuff, right? QUICK SHOT - Nightwatcher's gear burning in a barrel.
What about the bike, tho?
 Okay, so I couldn't exactly destroy the bike.
What do you mean?
I mean, it's in good hands.
 Oh, you didn't. Raph sheepishly shrugs as we-
As Casey roars down the street on the black motorcycle of Nightwatcher, barely able to hang on.
...yes. She wraps her arms around his waist and holds tight for the adventures that await... CAM FOLLOWS for a beat, then rises up the buildings to-
All four turtles are horsing around. They get geared up... and head off for a game of NINJA TAG. The boys run, hoot and holler as they fly high on the rooftops.
So what makes a family? Personally, it's more than sharing a roof or a bathroom. It's sharing life... My father taught me that, and I think it's pretty much true... y'know, provided that you don't kill each other in the process. Or that no one touches your stuff. Or makes loud noises when you're trying to sleep. Or...
Hey, nobody said it was easy.
