Fear will kill you.
I'm not afraid.
You know I'd stand in for you... But then, believing you are weak, they'd come for you anyway.
No. I want this.
Good. Right after chapel... it's going down in the yard.
Motherfuckers! Not in here!
Kill... me.
Could I give you some extra money, have you drop me at the Courthouse and bring my luggage to the hotel?
No problem.
I'm looking for the court where Edward T. Dowd is defending a Mr. Nevins.
That's the Edward Dowd.
Part 73, Room 1113.
That's the Room 1113.
Edward Dowd is an inventive lawyer. I'm sure he'd like you to believe that the pound of pure cocaine found in his client's home was intended for personal, recreational use.
He may claim that the many pounds of baby laxative were intended to help Mr. Nevins stay regular.
What will Mr. Dowd say the defendant weighed on his laboratory scales? Oh, he'll think of something... But bear in mind that you jurors control the scales that really count -- the scales of justice. Only you can ensure that the defendant -- a man who sells dangerous drugs to teenagers, for profit...
...will pay a penalty. Be wise, be fair, and have courage. Thank you.
Thank you, Ms. Jessum. Mr. Sweeney, may I have a word with you?
Roger Baron. Sorry I'm late.
This is an honor. And a thrill.
Really?
Hi.
What're you, um, accused of?
All sorts of things. How 'bout you?
Me? N-no, I'm a lawyer, I'm here to work with Mr. Dowd...
Mr. Dowd, would you care to make your closing argument?
You're in good hands.
I would, your Honor.
Brian Nevins' pound of pure cocaine was quite clearly intended for sale.
The baby laxative -- dealers use it to dilute their coke before selling it. They can -- quadruple their profits...
...and of course you can't sell cocaine without a laboratory scale.
Cocaine is evil. Selling cocaine is evil.
Pity this foolish merchant. Dislike him if you must. But despise the tactics the police employed to snare Brian Nevins... Don't lose sight of what's really on trial here -- our basic personal freedoms, our quality of life...
Sublime concepts, such as "the right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures..."
For when we condone the bugging of our citizens' bedrooms, when we allow the police to enter our citizens' homes with specious warrants, when we invade our citizens' privacy in a frenzied quest for a wicked white powder, aren't we capitulating to the evil, aren't we surrendering to the drug? Aren't we saying cocaine is more potent than our Constitution?
Wow, that speech... It was beautiful. Amazing horseshit.
 Amazing client.
Eddie Dowd... Everybody should own one.
About the mix-up back there... I, ah, never saw your photo, I just read every civil liberties brief you filed in the '60s...
Hey, it was nice meeting ya. Gotta get back to the office.
Roger Baron, Oberlin undergrad, Michigan Law? None of this rings a bell?
You hired me? To clerk for you? My letter...? Top 5 percentile, Law Review, salary is no object...?
That's right.
Here, lemme help you.
...read your Chase Manhattan bombing case summation in the '71 Leftist Law anthology...
So this is Greenwhich Village?
Yes Roger. You've arrived.
...and re-read that summation til I knew it verbatim. You were my age when you defended that case.
I was never your age.
Billy -- this here's Roger, the new assistant.
You want to be an "assistant" or an "associate"?
Some of them like "assistant," some like "associate". Up to you.
-- How many others are there?
You're the current one.
You Eddie's new partner?
Not exactly. Well, kind of.
You gotta call my parole officer!
 Clyde, you wait here.  Glenn, got a minute?
I had a minute before the Mapp hearing -- but I couldn't get you on the phone, Eddie...
Yeah, well I had reasonable cause to believe the judge might've heard of the Fourth Amendment.
Hey -- Gruner was caught with three pounds of methedrine. The legality of the search and seizure was the only issue. The Judge refused to exclude the evidence. No deal.
No it's not the only issue. There's another issue, for the jury. What about entrapment?
What about entrapment?
Glenn, the government sent an undercover cop to dangle the lure of fantastic profits before Clyde Gruner's eyes. Anyone so sorely tempted might succumb!
We don't prosecute people because in the abstract they might be weak. Judge Brandeis said it best: Entrapment is a "dirty business!"
Can't I take a simple piss without --
Don't you see? Planting the idea of being a criminal is just one step away from planting the evidence!
Haven't heard that one before, Ed.  But I guess I'll be hearing it again.
Not necessarily...
Nevins stopped by. It's on your desk.
We pleaded out Clyde Gruner to five years' probation.
Score another point for truth and justice.
The last struggle for constitutional rights is being waged over drugs...
And we're in the ring, Roger, doing battle with Big Brother.
'S' open.
...Edward Dowd?
Edward Dowd, please.
I'm Roger Baron -- Mr. Dowd's associate. Can I help you?
Mrs. Kim needs a lawyer. Her son stabbed a man to death.
It was self-defense. In prison.
 Eddie...
 He didn't belong there in the first place. Eight years for a murder he didn't commit.  I'm her neighbor's daughter.
Eddie...
I'm Eddie Dowd. What's up?
Her son didn't shoot anybody. He's the wrong guy. You meet him, you see he wouldn't stab a guy for fun.
He shot a man and stabbed a man?
He didn't shoot anybody! Eight years in jail! The wrong guy! A good boy. From a fine home in Seoul, Korea. Shu Kai Kim.
That's his name. Shu Kai Kim.
I'll bet he's a wonderful boy.
But I can't help him. You see I have a specialty. Lawyers specialize, Mrs. Kim, and these days I do mostly...
Anyway, I couldn't even go see your son without looking at the files on his case, first.
How did you find me?
 She went to all the courthouses. She talked to pot smokers, pill sellers... They all speak of you, they all say the same thing.
What do they say?
You do cases cheap.
Tell you what. Mr. Baron and I will review your material and get back to you as soon as possible.
Thank you for stopping by.
She thanks you in advance for saving her son.
"She thanks you in advance for saving her son."
Talk about hard-sell, huh?
Show me a guy who's not somebody's son.
-- Hit?
Whew. That was close... We almost defended a guy who wasn't a dealer. Who knows, might even be innocent.
We have a full caseload, Rog.
Right, I forgot... We're pledged to protect every mid-level drug dealer in the Tri-state area.  It's an awesome responsibility.
I don't venerate drug dealers, Roger. To the contrary.
Of course.
...through use of informants, eavesdropping, unreasonable search and seizure...!
Right. You're right.
Damn right I'm right.
It's just... I leave behind friends, family, a coupla good job offers in Chicago and in three dizzying weeks I've helped acquit a coke dealer, a speed dealer --
I specialize, Roger...
-- an angel dust dealer --
I'm not a kid anymore, I can't be all over the map --
-- a speed manufacturer --
So go take your job on Wall Street.
Don't tell me where to work. I moved to New York to work for Edward Dowd. But I can't believe that Edward Dowd has nothing better to do these days than invoke exalted legal issues to get off guilty little --
Hey. You plan to be a criminal defense attorney, know this going in: Everybody's guilty.
You wouldn't've said that ten years ago.
Ten years is a long time.
 Look -- I'm tired, I'll see you in the morning, Eddie.
Long time.
-- Yeah?
 We're late. Let's get going!
Where?
Ossining Correctional Facility. Sing Sing. Everybody's innocent there, man... Just ask 'em...
At 16 Shu Kai Kim emigrated with his family from Korea to New York...
Kim got busted at 19 for burglary. At 20 he was convicted in the shooting death of a young Chinese gang lord... The prosecution claimed Kim did it to get into "the Joe Boys"?
Chinatown street gang.
Kim denied it. But he admitted the gun was his, and he got life. Seems to have been an okay prisoner for eight years, til the... incident with Duane Lindeman.
-- The Nazi he knifed?
I'm Eddie Dowd. I'm a lawyer. This here's Roger Baron -- also a lawyer.
My mother find you?
That's right.
Figures.
 Want to tell me what went down here?
 Racist asshole came at me.
Exactly what happened then?
 I killed the motherfucker.
...Okay...
The night that kid was shot to death in Chinatown, you were... where?
At the trial, you said you were at your apartment that night. Alone.
-- Remember?
 That's eight years ago. Long time.
Real long time.
...So what would we claim? He stabbed Duane Lindeman in self-defense?
With two knives taped to his hands? Forget it, Rog.
I feel like I've been mugged... Guy scared the shit out of me. You made your point, Eddie... I'm relieved we're not taking the case.
We're taking the other case.
What other case?
Eight years ago. The Chinatown hit.
Some gang punk gets wasted in front of the tourists. The mayor pressures the cops. The cops pressure the rival gang -- the Joe Boys. The Joes give up Shu Kai Kim -- the schmuck kid from Korea who's been pestering 'em to get in.
You really think that's what happened?
I don't know but it makes one hell of an opening statement.
We prove Shu should never have been imprisoned in the first place, D.A. 'll back off the Lindeman charge...!
-- Easy as that, huh?
Easy? No... We have to find some piece of evidence that got buried, to reopen the sucker.
...Are you sure we want that?
He's a victim, Roger. He deserves to see the sun again, breathe the air. He's been in prison too goddamn long.
Okay. C'mon.
...the Exhibit Warehouse.
Transcript... transcript... exhibits...
-- The murder weapon.
They found four of Shu's fingerprints on this thing.
When did you start working for the goddam D.A.?
Eddie... I don't know about this...
Eddie... What's a DD-5?
A Complaint Follow-Up form.
-- Listen: "November 5, 1980. Cecil Stipe walked into 5th Precinct. Says he witnessed Chin shooting, saw suspect's picture in Post. Says Shu Kai Kim wrong man."
"Cecil Stipe"? Have we seen any affadavit with that name?
"Also says he knows who killed Kennedy."
Keep looking. Something'll turn up.
Clean-up time.
How's your brother, Tommy?
You kept him out of the slammer and I thank you, Dowd. But if you're not gone before the day shift shows up, I'm back to emptying parking meters.
That DD-5.
What, the lunatic who --
"Cecil Stipe." Find it.
Hi Eddie.
Roger Baron, Kitty Greer.  Roger's my new associate. Top of his class at Michigan Law.
You read Eddie's Chase Manhattan Bombing summation in the Leftist Law anthology?
-- Eddie told you?
My skip-trace turned up two Cecil Stipes. One's in Butte, Montana. Other's at Riverhead Veterans Psychiatric.
I'll take odds on Cecil Number Two.
So what'd this guy do? Snitch off a dealer?
 Murder witness.
You're doing a murder case?
It hasn't been that long.
Stipe was just one of four eyewitnesses who came forward, Kitty. Y'oughta start looking for the others...
Eddie, I'm not working on this case. You boys have fun.
I have business back on Planet Earth.
Lemme guess. Some corporate V.P.'s banging his secretary over lunch and you have to focus your camera and plug in your little tape recorder.
Beats getting paid in twenties by slimedogs selling angel dust to high school seniors.
Kitty, where exactly do you place the microphone to catch the most incriminating moans?
Just which Constitutional amendment protects our right to peddle PCP?
Forget it. You've blown your chance to participate in this case, Kitty.
I'm kicking myself, Eddie... Right out of here.
We got her.
You have to gently pressure a guy like this to test whether he'll keep it together on the stand...
Dr. Berger said you g-guys needed to talk to me...?
'lo, Cecil.
See-cil.
See-cil. I'm Eddie Dowd, this is Roger Baron. We're lawyers.
You're a l-lawyer?  I... I haven't had my meds, or m-my vital signs t-taken yet. I...
Mr. Stipe. A young man named Jimmy Chin was shot to death eight years ago, in Chinatown. Do you remember talking to the police?
 That guy they arrested -- he was the wrong g-guy.
Cecil, we want to reopen the case, and we can't without your testimony. I want to use what you have to say so badly -- but I must add, my friend, that I think you're fucking full of shit.
I think what Eddie wants to say is --
No! They g-got the wrong guy! I saw it! The killer wasn't Chinese.
Oh come on, Cecil.
Hey, Chinese people have this energy field that vibrates at a particular frequency.
Uh, Cecil... What's all this about the Kennedy assassination?
You're from the Company.
 CIA?
Telephone.  I suppose you don't know the phone company killed Kennedy because he was trying to b-break it up -- and they'll never let that happen. They control everything: what you say in the mouthpiece is never exactly what comes out the other end, and --
The phone company was broken up.
 And you b-believe that.
-- Cecil. (places his hand over Stipe's) Are you what heroes are made of?
I did two tours in 'Nam...
Good. Now we're going to take an affadavit from you, but only concerning the facts of the Chinatown shooting. We honestly don't give a shit about the Kennedy assassination.
Are you willing to testify that the man you saw shoot Jimmy Chin was not the man the cops arrested?
They g-got the wrong g-guy.
When the D.A. hears I filed the writ, he'll send someone here, maybe claiming to be a journalist. That person will ask you lots of questions. Just be truthful, Cecil, okay? To all of us?
I always t-tell the truth.  That's why I'm here.
...You told the Desk Sergeant you were certain Mr. Kim wasn't the killer?  You left your telephone number?
Y-yes, sir.
Did the police make any attempt to phone you, to follow up?
No, s-sir.
Thank you, Mr. Stipe.
Mr. Rabin? You may cross-examine.
Mr. Stipe, for how long have you been a patient at the Riverhead Veterans Psychiatric Hospital?
Objection, your Honor! The fact that the witness is currently a patient is immaterial!
Sustained.
Alright. Mr. Stipe, how long have you resided at the Riverhead Veterans --
Mr. Rabin, you're out of line. The question is stricken.
Mr. Stipe: you're under oath to tell the truth and nothing but the truth. Who killed President Kennedy?
-- Objection! Irrelevant! The witness is not an expert in --
 Your Honor, the question relates directly to the witness's bail-
 I'd l-like to answer the question.
Mr. Rabin has no right to --
Lee... H-Harvey... Oswald.
Never mind, your Honor.
Shu, the judge has ordered a retrial in the Chinatown murder case.
If we can prove reasonable doubt on your imprisonment eight years ago, we feel sure the D.A. will reduce the charge in Lindeman's death. You may get out of here much sooner.
Do I -- have to be in the courtroom?
The State won't want to retry an eight-year-old case... At the pre- trial conference, an offer'll be made. Odds are we'll cut some kinda deal.
-- I can't pay you.
 That's okay, Shu. We're not billing.
You've done enough time, Shu.
According to the evidence, the bullet, the wound, the powder burns, Shu's gun -- they're a perfect match.
Hey. The cops tell the eyewitnesses, "Don't doubt your ID, we got 'em dead on the gun." Meantime they tell their ballistics expert, "Hey, it's cool -- three people saw the guy fire the gun." It's a game, man. And you know what?
In the eight years since the first trial, advances in forensic ballistics analysis will enable us to piss on the evidence.
Of the prosecution's three original eyewitnesses, one's dead, one's moved to Montreal and won't budge...
You getting this?
-- Every word.
 But they've still got Laura Gordon -- and she was the closest, about 20 feet from the killer.
Gee, maybe she saw the gun.
Do you have to do that?
"Have to"? No...
Start looking into the Joe Boys -- who assigned the hits in 1980, what rank generally did the hits...  Your extensive law enforcement contacts should be of some use.
 I was never politically correct enough for Comrade Dowd.
Billy...
Yeah. Who?
Put him through.  Speaking.  Sure. Fine. See you then.
That was Donald Reynard.
The Manhattan D.A.?
Mr. Reynard...?
Edward T. Dowd.
 Don Reynard.
Of course you know Dean Rabin, one of my Assistant D.A.s. Dean generally handles nuisance cases like the... what's the man's name?
Shu Kai Kim.
You won't remember this, but in '72 I was one of several prosecutors assigned to the Black Panther-Police Shootout.  We had a whole team, and you walked into court by yourself and kicked our collective butt.  So what've you been up to since then?
This and that.
My staff tells me it's been mostly drug pushers... I said that can't be the same Edward Dowd.
 It's in the area of narcotics, Mr. Reynard, that the government tramples on the Fourth Amendment.
Let's not drag the Constitution into this.
Mr. Dowd, you used the testimony of a paranoid schizophrenic to overturn a murder conviction that had stood unchallenged for eight years. Now we don't intend to sit back and --
What you did was very cynical. I'm annoyed with you, Ed.
I'm sorry if I've ruined your day, Mr. Reynard. But my client's had a rough eight years behind bars and --
Your client is guilty. Don't dick around with me.
Back in the Seventies I spent years putting away gangsters in a Colombian syndicate called "the Ochoa". These guys are very dangerous, Ed. When I hear that a small-time dope lawyer is conniving to spring one of these guys, I see red.
I'd have that checked, Mr. Reynard.
Now maybe you got this case reopened because you see yourself as a thorn in society's side, or you want to walk into any restaurant in Chinatown and get free dumplings...
Are you implying that my motives are less than sincere?
Yes, but that's not the issue. What's on your wish list, Ed? Pleading Kim out to first degree man on both homicides, with an agreed sentence of 15 to life running concurrent? Come on... What're you looking for here?
What am I looking for? You're the one talking deal.
Friday's the drop-dead date on the offer.
Please don't bullshit me, Mr. Reynard. You've got witness problems, you've got proof problems...
You're my only problem, Ed. What does it take to make you go away?
8-1/3 on both counts to run concurrent, and credit for time served.
I see: He'd walk out next month.
That's right.
We reconvict, your man's looking at 25 years on two counts, served consecutively. So what I'd like to ask, Ed, is: Are you joking?
 I never joke about waiving a client's Sixth Amendment right to trial.
You're pissing me off again, Ed.
You know you're very tense, Mr. Reynard. Y'oughta take a week off, fly the wife and kids to Oahu.
Don't forget: after Friday, no deal.
Excuse me... Len Davis.
Looks like you've wriggled up Reynard's ass... What gives?
You're not a reporter...?
Daily News.
I can't talk to you.
...not saying there was a conspiracy. Law enforcement is too disorganized for that... No, I suspect sloth was the culprit -- lassitude... My client made a convenient patsy...
"Edward C. Dowd, retained to defend Mr. Kim, has disclosed that a witness will corroborate Mr. Kim's alibi"?
I embellished.
"Dowd also reports that his team of private investigators..."?
I embroidered.
"...are close to naming the man they believe actually killed Jimmy Chin"?
I lied.
Shoulda told the one about Shu being the bastard child of Mother Theresa.
 Saving it for the Sunday Times.
I'm heading home -- get some sleep...
Hey Eddie... Loose joints? Buy one, get one free.
I get 'em all free.
Hey, Eddie.
Spare a quarter?
Race traitor. Gook lover.
Enemy of the Aryan People.
Commie. Faggot. Motherfucker. Jew.
 -- Only half.
Aryan Warriors say: If the Chink goes to trial, you die.
In my humble opinion, Mr. Dowd, you opened a Pandora's box of ugly shit.
Oh, Eddie deserved this. I guess rape victims want to get laid at gunpoint.
These are all the known Aryan Warriors in New York?
Every last delightful one.
Y'don't mind, I'll look some more tomorrow. Starting to see double.
His name is Chuckie Roeder. But something's very weird.
-- You found his mugshot?
The tears... they weren't real.
I don't believe we're going to talk to a bunch of Nazis. At night.
They only think they're Nazis.
They're just frightened, fucked-up losers that prison fucked up worse.
 I didn't ask for a closing argument.
There's no one else to talk to. The tattoos were phony!
-- Yeah?
So an upstanding member of the Aryan Warriors wouldn't paint them on. They take those teardrops seriously -- they're badges of courage, of honor. Only their most vicious killer elite get to wear them...!
I feel much better now.
Hey, Clyde Gruner sold these guys a pound of crystal meth at cost. We're Clyde's buddies, it's cool.  Next exit.
Hi there. Is your daddy home?
I'm a friend of Clyde Gruner's...
We know who you are. You're the race traitor who's defending the gook.
You've got balls coming here.
We respect balls.
Who's Chuckie Roeder?
Chuck? Rhymes with suck?  Chuckie Roeder is no longer a comrade in the resurrection of our nation. We expelled that faggot junkie last year.
Do you know where he can be found?
Hanging with his tongue out and a sign around his neck says "I Betrayed My Race" along with the rest of society's scum, on the Great Day of the Rope.
Um... prior to the Great Day of the Rope, where can Chuckie be found?
Mixing with mongrel races.
-- A job? An address?
Art supplies, right?
Now get the fuck out of here.
A man jumped me tonight. He said he was an Aryan Warrior, and you're saying he wasn't. I have to hear it really clear: You guys weren't behind this.
If we were, you wouldn't be standing here, asking.
At the main gate, that isn't open yet. Eddie stands still, head bowed, hands clasped behind his back. A supplicant. Waiting to get in.
Shu, the D.A.'s offered us a deal. I can make a counter-offer I know he'd accept. You'd be free in four years.
Who did that to you?
An Aryan Warrior with black teardrops painted on his face.
"Painted"?
That wasn't an Aryan Warrior.
But why would a guy would do that? Paint black teardrops on his face?
I guess he... wanted you to think he was... somebody he wasn't.
But why?
Maybe... because someone's afraid.
Afraid of what?
I don't know. The truth, maybe.
-- About what?
About Chinatown. What went down.
What went down?
You tell me, man.
No. You tell me, Shu.
How can I tell you what I don't know!
You can't. So tell me what you do know -- say it!
I don't know shit, man! Goddammit --
Well I know that you're innocent, Shu -- even if you forgot.
Shit... fucking... bitch bastard...
Shu. We take this deal, that's the end. I don't look for the scumbag that jumped me, don't get him on the stand to tell the court who put him up to it, don't go after the fuck who put him up to it -- the fuck who did the crime and let you do the time... We take this deal, we walk away without knowing what really went down, never get a shot at nailing some guilty bastard's balls to the wall.
No.
"No," what?
Fuck the D.A.'s deal.
Jimmy came east on Pell. He stopped on the corner to a let a car go by.
At the last instant he must've sensed something. He turned --
Laura Gordon stood here. No bus stop, phone booth, stop sign in the way...  She had a perfect view of the killer's face.
But she couldn't have, could she, because she thinks she saw Shu and now we know she didn't see Shu...
You're cruising along without a care but now I'm stalking you, I'm right behind you, there's rage in the air. You feel the rage, like an electrical charge -- you turn --
I pull out a loaded gun --
-- Time contracts, space explodes, perceptions can't be trusted when I --
Some guys in the field, they'll try to bullshit you that comparison microscopy's an exact science.
...Not exactly.
I'm saying, we need to finesse a little, we'll finesse.
George -- I told ya -- ! We don't need to finesse this one!
Jesus! Jump back...
You wanna hang out, Eddie, I'll have something preliminary in an hour.
My associate'll wait, George. I've got good news of my own to deliver.
Is Mr. Reynard expecting you?
This'll only take a minute.
I'm sorry but Mr. Reynard is running about an hour behind schedule.
Then just leave word: Mr. Dowd and Mr. Kim plan to proceed with trial.
...Ed?
Did my girl hear your message correctly?
I guess so, or you wouldn't be standing there, am I right?
Why did I think I could deal reasonably with a man who defends coke pushers for free?
Coke pushers pay cash. That subsidizes the pot possession cases.
But now you've strayed from your area of expertise -- dope -- into street assassins. A subject on which you're dangerously ignorant.
But I'm a quick study. Tell your Deputy D.A. -- Rabin? -- that I'll see him in court.
No, Mr. Dowd, you'll see me in court. I'm prosecuting this case.
Why am I surprised? It's consistent.
You seem to have a talent for putting non-whites behind bars...
I'll prosecute anyone who fucks up. If that makes me look racist, it's a trade-off I'll live with, Ed.
That's big of you, Bob.
I'll see vou in court.
I'll beat you, Ed. You can hide behind the whole Bill of Rights...
You guys shoulda been there.
The fuckin' D.A. himself.
Dude was quaking.
Uh, Eddie? The, um, ballistics guy, George...? He called, and...  His tests show that Shu's gun fired the bullet that killed Jimmy Chin.
George is a fucking burnout case. I didn't want him on the stand anyway. Get more names from Billy.
Did you find me an expert witness on the Joe Boys?
The best expert in New York is a Soc professor at Columbia...  Apparently doing a hit was the way to get into the Joe Boys.
So there goes your theory about the Joes giving up Shu to protect their trigger man.
But I like that theory. And since I'm not putting Twerp Professor on the stand, and since I don't have a better theory, I'm sticking with that theory. Meantime I want pictures of the Joes. What'll you bet there was a guy in the gang looked enough like Shu to fool the eyewitnesses!
Our guy is innocent. We prod in enough places, I don't care how solid this case against Shu looks -- there's a weak spot somewhere and when we hit it the whole hideous thing collapses. Better yet, we get our hands on Chuckie Roeder, we don't have to grope in the dark. Chuckie is the answer man!
I've phoned every art supply retailer and wholesaler in the Tri-state area. No one's heard of Chuckie Roeder.
Have you considered that Chuckie Roeder's not calling himself Chuckie Roeder these days? Get his mugshot from one of the many law officers who've got hotpants for you... then canvass those art supplies places. We're gonna win this one, Kitty, but ya gotta believe...
Matter of People vs. Shu Kai Kim.
This case has been tried before, but you the jurors must make no...
-- Where is Mr. Dowd?
You will hear from the detectives who arrested Shu Kai Kim and found the murder weapon in his apartment.
An eyewitness will testify that she saw Mr. Kim shoot Jimmy Chin in cold blood. An expert who examined Kim's gun, and the bullet that tore through Jimmy Chin's brain, will testify that Shu Kai Kim was the killer.
But this trial is about much more than Mr. Kim's guilt. It's a test of our legal system -- the fairest, most liberal in the world, in world history... So fair and liberal that lawyers like Mr. Dowd can manipulate it on a whim to re-try convicted killers. Well that's a trade-off we can live with, provided we have the courage to meet our civic obligations. You twelve are all that stand between society and every Shu Kai Kim itching to get free. Quite a responsibility. But one I know that each of you can handle.
Picture this. In a part of town that thrives on its spirit of celebration... good food, friendly faces... one young man walked up to another, out on the street, in front of the tourists, and committed murder.
I wonder if Chinatown's shopkeepers and restaurant owners pleaded with the Mayor... I wonder if the Mayor put pressure on the Police Commissioner...
What do you think the Mayor said to the Police Commissioner? I think the Mayor said, "Arrest somebody...
...ANYBODY!"
And so, having brought Mr. Kim in for booking, you arranged a line-up with six other Asian males.
That's right.
And the results of the line-up?
All the eyewitnesses picked Kim.
Isn't it a fact that the "six other Asian men" in the line-up were all of the classic Mongoloid type, whereas Shu has the distinct facial bone structure of a Korean?
Objection. The witness is not an expert in racial classification.
Isn't it a standard trick to pack a line-up with men who resemble each other but look different than the suspect, so the suspect will stand out for the eyewitnesses?
Argumentative.
Sustained.
You had to use less than scrupulous methods, true? The Mayor was pushing you hard for an arrest, wasn't he?
I don't want to disappoint you. But the Mayor and I have never spoken.
I was being metaphorical, Detective Montell.
Is that a fancy way of being wrong?
Exactly what information led you to arrest my client just two-and-a-half hours after the shooting took place?
We had a description of the suspect.
A "description"? What, Asian male 18 to 30, black hair, brown eyes?
Badgering.
We had intelligence.
You had intelligence...?
We had information bearing on Mr. Kim's desire to gain admission into the Joe Boys by assassinating a member of a rival gang.
Didn't this "information" come from the Joe Boys themselves -- did they not all but hand you Shu Kai Kim, a Korean, an outsider?
Objection! Your Honor, this isn't cross-examination, it's Mr. Dowd's opening argument again -- and again, it's pure fabrication.
Sustained.
Isn't it unusual for a man who's just committed a murder in plain sight to bring the weapon back to his apartment?
Calls for speculation.
Sustained.
You're implying that I planted a gun?
Not at all --
Kim's prints were all over it -- He admitted it was his gun, f'r godsake!
 Your Honor, the witness' response was non-responsive... I ask you to strike it from the record...!
No more questions.
The People call retired Detective Vincent Badalato.
...I'm dying out there.
 It's okay, Eddie.
You've got another shot.
 A fucking wheelchair?
 A spinal injury, in the line of duty. It was in Kitty's report...
And you left the murder scene...?
At, un, ten-thirty, sir.
And then what did you do, Officer?
I proceeded with Decedent's body to the office of the County Coroner.
Thank you. No further questions.
Detective Badalato. You reached the County Coroner's and signed over the body, when?
...Eleven-thirty.
No more questions, your Honor.
A fucking wheelchair?
I didn't put him in a wheelchair. Reynard did. He can get around without one -- it's all in my report.
I don't have time to read every word in every report, I'm too busy getting killed in court... Meantime my crackerjack investigator can't find the goddam art supplies store where Chuckie-fucking-Roeder works!
I'd love to chat but I'm meeting a cop for drinks. He'll be bringing the Joe Boys' mugbook, circa 1980.
And I need an expert on the Joes I can put on the goddam stand!
Eddie? Stick this up your ass.
"Art's Supplies."
"Everything For The Plumber".
Is "Art" around?
He expecting you-all?
No, but this won't take long.
I'm Mariquilla Esparza -- Art's wife.
"Mariquilla"? It's a lovely name.
Thank you, Mister...
Art Esparza. How can I help you?
Eddie Dowd.
Roger Baron.
You can't come back here... Anything happens to you I'm liable.
 I'm a lawyer. The firm is thinking about renovating. Everything dates back to the Sixties.
I noticed.
 Do you see a toilet here you think is really me?
We're considering one of those high tech designs, what do you call it, a "lowboy"?
Excuse me but we're not a store and we're not a showroom...
Didn't I read it's healthier? To sit lower on a toilet? Y'know, with your knees up, and --
-- Where's your friend?
You fool.
Everything's cool! Back off... take five!
Look, I'm a lawyer and --
-- I don't care who you are. You could've been killed. Every man and woman in here has done hard prison time. And we look out for each other.
"We"?
I did five years in Attica. Lot of cons helped me in the joint. But I never got help from any lawyer... I built this business for guys like me who couldn't get a break anywhere else. "Art's Supplies" is for ex- cons. Not lawyers.
Chuckie Roeder's a material witness in a murder case, Mr. Esparza.
Chuckie... Never learn...
"Art's Supplies" is founded on trust, Mister --
Dowd. Eddie Dowd.
If you'd had the sense to ask for my help, I might've helped you. But you've probably scared Chuckie Roeder off for good, I have a whole bunch of jumpy employees to handle and you're both going to be on your way. Now.
Goddam it... the little punk bests me again, I get thrown down and lectured at and where the hell were you?
1530 Rivington Street.
-- What?
Chuckie's address. I sneaked a peek at the Rolodex.
You sneaked a peek at the Rolodex.  Nice.
...Eddie? 1530 Rivington...
Kitty, when they demolish a residential hotel, the city has to relocate the tenants! Housing Authority'll have records of --  You taught me that? So why'm I wasting my breath?
-- Find him?
Eddie, these things take time. Particularly at this hour...
My guy at Housing's waiting at home for a pass to get back in his office.
The Joe Boys in 1980...!
A number of them are dead, three are in prison, one's a waiter... Two -- you'll enjoy this -- two are actually members of the Chamber of Commerce.
Doesn't do me much good unless I know what Shu looked like back th--
 Whoa.
Boy, I was right about the distinctive facial bone structure of a Korean. I thought I was bullshitting.
The odd man out always takes the fall! Haven't I been saying all along that --
I haven't thanked you for your work, Kitty. You're doing good work.
I'm a professional, Eddie. Getting paid is all the thanks I require.
 I haven't paid you.
 Right.
Got any booze in the house?
You don't drink "booze".
You do.
Eddie, if I wanted to make love with you again, I'd do it sober.
Eddie this is silly... are we supposed to pretend nothing's happened in the last ten years and --
Nothing has. But that's all changing.
...Yes?  Oh. Great...
913 Delancey...
-- Roeder?
-- I guess you found him.
He had no family. I have to I.D. him. I'm his family.
You won't be able to use him now, will you?
C'mon, Eddie, let's go.
-- That's goddam tragic, isn't it?
C'mon, get outta here, Dowd.
You're in over your head, Dowd... Don't you defend pot smokers?
So what're we gonna do?
...What do you mean?
Well, I mean, Roeder's gone, now... A dead end. Believe me, I'm sorry too, but...
But what?
 I've heard from the last ballistics expert on the list. It's an even ten who say Shu's gun killed Jimmy Chin!
That's why I hate experts.
Eddie... it's one thing to compare Clyde Gruner to Jesus Christ. It's even okay to claim that Shu Kai Kim is just slightly holier than the Pope... as long as you don't really believe it!
Hey -- you believe what you want. Shu Kai Kim is innocent.
-- Eddie...
You know how I know? 'Cause Reynard says he's guilty, and Reynard's full of shit! Look --
It's not the face of a killer!
You're carrying that around like it was a picture of your girlfriend!  I don't want to see your heart broken when this case crashes and burns!
 That's not gonna happen. I'm gonna create reasonable doubt. Buckle your seatbelt and watch me work.
But Roeder's dead. Ballistics says it's Shu! We don't have one witness -- unless we put Cecil Stipe on the stand...
I'm not that desperate.
I am. Eddie -- we've got nothing.
I've got a meeting in Chinatown.
 Let's get a cab.
-- Roger -- ?
That's weird -- I pictured the morgue being way across town.
We need you in court. The jury'll be swayed by your support. You men are the backbone -- the conscience -- of your community!
Only people who've sat on my side of the courtroom so far are a wino trying to stay warm and a bail bondsman I owe money to.
C'mon, guys -- the dignity of your race is being threatened here!
If the dignity of our race is threatened, it is threatened by your reopening of this ugly case.
When a violent thug is taken off the street, our quality of life -- and commerce -- immeasurably improves.
"A violent thug"? I happen to know that two of you were once Joe Boys.
But I'm not here to point the finger. I did dumb things when I was 19 too -- we all did. Wrong time, wrong place, everybody here could've made a perfect fall guy instead of our lives turning out how they did. This case is about all of us. And you're gonna feel like a bunch of goats when the truth comes out.
You'll kick yourselves for standing on the sidelines while the D.A. made you out to be fungible!
Excuse me. But what is "fungible"?
Interchangeable. As in, "Hey, maybe we got the wrong guy but what the hell, one slanty-eyed sonovobitch is the same as the next"!
Enjoy your dumplings, gentlemen.
So according to your information, Detective, the Joe Boys normally used aspiring members -- like Shu Kai Kim -- to do the "hits"?
That's how you got into the gang.
Thank you. Your witness, Mr. Dowd.
You're the police expert in Chinatown gangs?
...For ten years, now.
Do you speak Cantonese, Mandarin, or both?
-- Me? Neither.
Pardon... Which dialect do you speak?
Neither.
Neither?
You don't speak any Chinese dialects? Then you get your intelligence from snitches?
Badgering.
 They're Chinamen who speak English. We call them informants.
 And I call your testimony hearsay. I have no more questions for you.
Bearing in mind that every gun barrel leaves a distinctive mark on the bullet it fires, we must conclude that the bullet that killed Jimmy Chin was fired from Mr. Kim's .38.
And the powder burns at the site of the victim's entrance wound...?
...Can also be linked to the bullet.
Thank you. Your witness.
The photo on the left shows the bullet that killed Jimmy Chin, true?
True.
And the one on the right is the bullet you test-fired from Shu's gun?
Correct.
You would have the court believe that these two bullets were fired from the same gun?
Absolutely.
I see a groove here. I don't see a groove here.
It's not a significant difference.
And what about this? I don't see this on the other bullet.
Or this -- is this a significant difference?
No it is not, Mr. Dowd.
To the best of your recollection, were you sober when you performed the tests?
Objection.
Forensic ballistics isn't an exact science, is it?
It most certainly is.
Isn't there a ten to fifteen-percent margin of error?
Absolutely not. No more than seven percent.
In other words, seven times out of a hundred, you're wrong!
Would you tell the court exactly what you remember seeing on that evening?
I'll never forget it. I was walking east on Pell Street...
A man walked past me. I noticed him for two reasons.
He was walking very fast and his hand was shoved inside his jacket. I was in front of a restaurant called Andy Lee's... Something told me to turn...
And the man whom you saw murder Jimmy Chin. Is he in this courtroom?
That's him sitting right there.
Ms. Gordon. I have studied the diagrams and the photographs and I have visited the murder scene and the conclusion I keep reaching is... and I hate to have to say this... You weren't even close enough to see the killer's gun.
Does Mr. Dowd have a question?
Come now. Did you see the gun?
I can describe it.
 Oh really?
It was silver, with a stubby barrel... snub-nosed, I think they call it... It wasn't automatic, it had one of those... cylinders...
You can't remember that -- !
I can see the hammer still, it was cocked...
 How can you remember that?
I didn't take my eyes off it!
Ah.
Thank you, Ms. Gordon.
Not the whole time, of course. I --
 No further questions.
Your Honor... The People wish to call a witness whose name does not appear on the witness list. He --
Your Honor, that's trial by ambush!
We just discovered him, your Honor! His appearance is critical to a fair presentation of our case! He is an inmate at Ossining Correctional and --
-- Objection, your Honor! This case has no connection with any subsequent act my client may be charged with!
The witness will substantiate Mr. Kim's modus operandi. It's circumstantial evidence in the case at hand!
The witness is recalcitrant, your Honor -- I had to personally make a body attachment this morning -- it took two Marshalls to drag him here!
The great personal sacrifices endured by Mr. Reynard have no bearing on the legal issues, your Honor -- !
Your Honor, I know as much about these gangs as anyone; I'm well aware of the secrecy in which their machinations are cloaked... I assure you this witness offers the court a rare opportunity to place the defendant's crime --
-- alleged crime --
-- in a context.
I will allow the witness to testify. With the understanding that your questions are confined to the area of Mr. Kim's modus operandi.
-- With objection!
So noted.
As their final witness, the People call Richard Ortega.
Mr. Ortega, you've known the defendant at Ossining Correctional for how long?
I would tend to plead the Fifth.
Invalid invocation, Mr. Ortega. What I call "name, rank and serial number" questions are not covered by the 5th Amendment. You must answer counsel.
Five years.
Mr. Ortega... What is "La Compania"?
A Cubano army, basically... inside and outside prisons.
And its purpose?
Fighting the Aryan Warriors and the Black Guerrillas, basically.
For control of the prison drug trade?
I would tend to plead the Fifth.
Mr. Ortega, you've already answered questions about La Compania. You cannot now selectively invoke the 5th Amendment.
Your Honor, that's not fair -- !
 Complain to the Bar Commission.
Answer the question, Mr. Ortega. Your unserved time can double...
Do the rival gangs compete for control of the prison drug trade?
Yeah, we do some of that.
What is your rank within La Compania?
"Name, rank and serial," Mr. Ortega. Let's not hide behind the Fifth.
 I'm a soldado in the G-Wing Regiment.
And what does a soldado -- a soldier -- do?
A soldado, he runs messages and materiel between the regiments...
"Materiel"? What do you mean by that?
Cigarettes, candy bars...  PCP, crack...
If a member of the Aryan Brothers tries to cut in on your distribution?
...A soldado, he takes care of it.
By "takes care of," you mean "kills".
 That's right.
Mr. Ortega, what is Shu Kai Kim's rank within La Compania?
Soldado.
Isn't it unusual for an Asian to be accepted into a Cuban prison gang?
Shu's the only one I know of...
And why was an exception made?
Chinatown. Sounded pretty cold...
You mean to say Mr. Kim told you that he murdered Jimmy Chin?
Objection. Leading.
Overruled.
Man, they got me all fucked up here.
Mr. Ortega! I warn you...
-- Did Mr. Kim confess to you that he killed Jimmy Chin?
...I think he mentioned it, yeah.
In other words Shu Kai Kim is, and always has been, a killer for hire.
Objection.
Sustained.
Withdrawn. The People rest.
I move that the witness's testimony be stricken. He has clearly been terrorized by the prosecution, he's --
The testimony will remain in the record. Do you wish to cross-examine?
I'm sorry, man -- ! Motherfuckers...
Take me outta here! I never wanted this -- !
Court is hereby adjourned until ten a.m. tomorrow!
I hope you've learned something, Mr. Dowd.
It's okay. It was always like that.
Shouldn't one of us...?
No -- leave him be. It's better for everyone.
...Would you excuse me?
Quite a bit you didn't tell me.
When I joined up I took an oath of secrecy. I told you what you needed to know.
I didn't need to know that a man I'm defending on a gang-murder rap is a prison soldier who kills over drugs?
It was self-defense.
Jimmy Chin? Was that self-defense too?
I'm sorry, it's just -- You'll laugh but there was awhile when I thought, Hey, we're two sorry assholes who need each other. Who can help each other.
-- How could I help you?
By trusting me. Shit, man...
I got my face kicked 'cause I trusted you. I couldn't find an expert to say it wasn't your gun killed Jimmy Chin but it didn't matter... I went up against the goddam D.A. himself but I didn't care because I trusted you, because I believed in you, because I thought there was a bond between us!
Didn't you feel that?
You're out there and I'm in here. My bond -- my trust -- is with the dudes in here that watch my ass. I took an oath of loyalty to them. You're out there. Who are you to me?
When you leave this place you're going out to dinner or a movie or get laid. Where's our bond? I'm going back to my cell and wait to die. So tell me: Where's our bond?
For awhile we had this dream we were innocent. That was our bond... but then we woke up. And now I'd like to hear everything.
What do you mean, "everything"?
Tell me about Chinatown, Shu. Tell me the tr--
...Mrs. Esparza?
What do you want?
I'm Roger Baron. I work with Edward Dowd.
What were you... Why were you at Shu's trial this afternoon?
-- What trial?
I followed you here from court.
 I knew Jimmy Chin. The boy who was shot. Okay?
 ...And you were at the trial to... to see that justice was done?
That's right.
Then it was your idea to have Chuckie Roeder scare Eddie off the case?
-- Why don't you ask Chuckie?
 Chuckie OD'd, Mrs. Esparza. He's dead.
Art didn't tell you...?
Look. Mister --
-- Roger --
You mustn't talk to Art. You mustn't tell Art that I was at the trial. Do you hear me?
But you lost a friend... You've got a right to...
Wait... Were you and Jimmy Chin...?
I can't talk to you anymore. Go away, please... Never come back.
Oh, Christ.
...Do you realize I haven't gotten stoned since the trial started?
Eddie... A guilty client's not the end of the world...
EXACTLY!
It's liberating! I feel free!
Go fuck yourselves.
Eddie... go home. Get some sleep.
I don't need sleep!
I need sleep. Some of us are mere mortals.
Screw you too, Kitty.
For years I've defended scumbags. Dealers. Hitters... And somehow it seemed fine until this kid came along who knew me as a true believer who'd fought the good fight and... but... he seemed so damned disappointed in who he found... and then, out of nowhere, here we were fighting to free an innocent man -- an innocent man, I don't see many of those in my line anymore and I thought, Wow, the kid brought me good luck, y'know? For one minute I was a true believer again. Well, my minute is up, Kitty. I'm going back to defending scumbags... But not just dope dealers anymore. From now on: Child molesters. Porno merchants. Repeat drunk drivers, and I'm gonna get 'em all off. Hit men... Send me every contract killer... None of 'em does time ever again.
Eddie. We can discuss this... after you get some sleep.
I told you, Kitty -- no more sleep for me.
The hell're you doing here?
Eddie -- it's Art Esparza!
What's Art Esparza?
I think he hired Shu to kill Jimmy Chin... It wasn't a Chinatown gang hit -- Jimmy Chin and Art's wife were lovers! She just about told me...!
 You phoned up Art Esparza's wife?
I followed her from the courthouse.
Esparza's wife was at Shu's trial?
And you spotted her in the crowd?
What're you, trying to show me up here?
Dowd... We're even now...
Esparza's security clearance to go inside the jails for parole hearings.
Wonderful work Esparza does...
Skipping back two years.
Esparza was being watched by Narco. Suspected of using his warehouse as a drug drop... Surveillance terminated.
Four years ago. Esparza charged with assault. Dismissed.
Accessory to extortion. Dismissed.
Dismissed for lack of evidence. Dismissed, dismissed...
This little prick is protected.
That's it -- I'm outta here. You owe me one, Dowd.
Dismissed...
...dismissed. Shit!
 Shit.
-- What?
I've seen this picture before.
They could've been brothers. It's why the eyewitnesses picked Shu.
Christ... Shu is innocent.
"The killer wasn't Chinese"... Cecil Stipe was right. .!
Everyone else was wrong and the one fucking lunatic was right!
Does this mean Kennedy was killed by the phone company?
 But Shu's gun is an absolute match...! How could that be, goddammit?
...Jesus!
Least we'd already be at the Morgue.
Let's make a citizen's arrest of Esparza! We'll need back-up... Who's the meanest motherfucker you ever got off?
Fuck that, Rog. Esparza's nobody. This goes higher than him...
Gotta start somewhere. Gimme a name -- any client who owns a Magnum.  Eddie?
Wait a second.
 How long did it take Badalato to drive Jimmy Chin's body from Chinatown to the morgue?
... An hour.  That's why I thought the morgue was on the other side of town.
Roger... I may be late for court this morning.
Fill in for me, huh?
-- Who the hell...?
Hope I didn't wake you. I'm Edward C. Dowd. You're Mrs. Badalato?
Ms. Vin's sister.
I have to talk to your brother.
The hell you do. At this hour?
Gimme back my bottle.
Let go of my hair.
-- Stay.
Do I know you?
I'm Eddie Dowd. I cross-examined you.  But not very well.
What did you do with Jimmy Chin's body?
What did you do with Jimmy Chin's body?
I brought it... to the coroner.
An hour after you picked it up!
An hour later...
From Chinatown... Which is right up the street from the morgue! Where did you go with the body? What did you do with it?
Please... I need to sleep...
You're fishing. You don't know shit.
I know about Esparza.
-- It wasn't Vin's idea.
Whose idea was it?
Connie get outta here... this is official business...!
You were pressured... Tell the man!
Dammit Connie -- go back to bed!
The little guys always take the rap for the big shots.
 Connie!
Montell... one of my partners... he said it'd work if it was a thru-and thru.
What's a "thru-and-thru"?
I have this chronic pain...
Eight years I'm waiting for some genius to notice it took me an hour to drive seven blocks.
I drove Chin's body to The Firing Line. Pistol range, near the Battery. Lotta cops used to go there...
Sklaroff brought Shu Kai Kim's gun. Montell was already there...
He said we'd only have three hours. After that, with the body cooling, and the clotting... it wouldn't look right to the pathologist.
Chin was hit once in the forehead by Esparza's .32. The bullet exited clean.  That's a thru-and-thru.
All Montell had to worry about was firing Kim's .38 at the same angle.
We recovered the bullet and that was it -- an airtight case...
But why? All to protect Esparza?
Nasty little bastard. He stepped in shit...
...we had to lick his boots clean.
 He was your snitch.
 Our own Colombian Connection... For three years... Three years of ball breaking detective work. And we put a lotta bad guys behind bars.
And one good guy.
Demerol? What the fuck is your problem, man? You wanna die?
I'm dead. We're both dead.
Nobody dies till I hear the truth! Who ordered the frame on Shu?
It was wrong, Vinnie -- you know that! But we can make it right... if you'll fucking stand up!
Get up, godammit!
Don't hurt him.
Where's the nearest hospital?
Bellevue. Straight up First --
Stay awake, Badalato. Vinnie... Come on, man, talk to me!
Did I say snort? No, I said talk. Please... I need you to live...  Hey: When was the first time you got laid?  Okay, I sympathize, I blocked mine out myself. She had a moustache...
...Where're we goin'?
That-a-boy. Hospital.
I don' need a hospital... I feel fine.
Too fine, Badalato. The bad news is, you're gonna live.
Make y'a deal. You clean up, I clean up. No more dope.  No more dope for a year.  For the rest of the year.
Why'd you have to come here, you hippie-dippie fuck?
Montell... listen to me: Vinnie took a buncha pills. He needs a hospital.
Makes two of ya.
Goddammit Art, get back in the car!
Vin... What'd you tell the lawyer?
Lou...
I'm here, Vin. So's Dave. We need to know what you told the lawyer.
I came clean...
Good, Vinnie... You wait here.
Vinnie told 'im everything.
What, "everything"? You shot a corpse. I don't give a shit about that -- !
Let's snuff this lowlife!
 Hey -- the fact you popped Jimmy Chin in broad daylight proves it wasn't premeditated. Jury'll sympathize -- dude was banging your wife, right?
Shut your sewer mouth!
Killing me in the middle of the trial would cause quite a stink...  It won't be clean like with Chuckie. What, y'treat him to a match-head of pure smack...?
That's right -- I'm a generous guy!
-- Who'd y'waste now, Art?
Goddam you.
Do it. So we can go home.
Still letting your snitch run you?
Lou... We have to.
Waste him, y'little worm!
 Okay then I'll put this filthy lawyer freak out of his mis--
Shut up, Art.
Shoulda done that eight years ago.
You see that? You wanna be like that?
No. No...
You fucking swear to shut up!
...We can't trust this fuck...
 You gonna keep quiet -- ?
I can't do that... Keep quiet? You can't ask me to do that!
 Shoot 'im, f'r Chrissakes!
That's the motherfucker killed Jimmy Chin. It's justice...!
But I have a client eight years in prison didn't do it...
You sorry bastard.
My guy's gotta walk. You hear me?
You hear what I'm saying? It's over -- all the bullshit. Your bullshit, my bullshit -- all the lies -- that's it, party's over, enough's enough... Y'live a lie, you die inside -- don't you know that?  I have to go now. I have to be in court.
Vinnie... You coming?
Your Honor, Mr. Dowd indicated that he may be detained this morning... He asked me to fill in for him...
This doesn't amuse me, Mr. B--
Good morning, Mr. Dowd. Do you think you might be up to cross-examining Mr. Ortega this morning?
Your Honor: I imagine that, no matter how careful my questioning, Mr. Ortega would, in his well-intentioned way, dig my client's hole even deeper.
Well then, does the defense have any witnesses?
I suppose I could find an inmate who'd say that Shu boasted about Chinatown just to survive in the joint -- though he didn't really do it...
I guess I could find witnesses to dispute every point made by the D.A. But in the end, would we be any closer to understanding what really happened eight years ago? As Mr. Reynard has said, these matters are cloaked in secrecy... How can we, here in the safety and sanctity of this court, presume to pass judgment on Shu Kai Kim, a refugee...
...who has spent his young adulthood like a caged animal in a prison where kill or be killed was the code...
-- Then you don't wish to call any witnesses, Mr. Dowd?
I would like to put Shu's alleged crime in a context, your Honor. And we do have the foremost expert on prison and street gangs right here in this room... If it please the court, I'd like to call Mr. Reynard.
I would ask opposing counsel to make an offer of proof that this is anything more than a desperate tactic.
Will you both approach the bench...?
-- Can't Mr. Dowd find his own expert witness, your Honor?
I'd need a continuance. Three weeks at least.
Your questions would of course be restricted to Mr. Reynard's area of expertise.
It's a last-ditch ploy, your Honor... The Defense clearly hopes that my presence on the stand will create the opportunity to call for a mistrial.
But the Defense is mistaken.
Do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
I do.
Let's start by establishing your credentials as an expert witness, Mr. Reynard. In the late '70s you led an investigation into a Colombian crime syndicate called "the Ochoa"?
Yes, Mr. Dowd.
Didn't this investigation, with its attendant publicity, catapult you into the office you now hold?
If I were sitting where I normally sit, I would say "Calls for speculation."
Did you do any hands-on work or did you just supervise, from on high?
Mr. Dowd, I was personally involved with all phases -- and principals -- of the investigation.
And who were the detectives who assisted you, Mr. Reynard?
Lou Sklaroff, Vin Badalato, Dave Montell.
The same three detectives on the Jimmy Chin case.
In those days, they often worked as a team.
And who was Arturo Esparza?
I don't think I know that name.
-- But you just said you were personally involved with all the principals of the investigation.
I can't be expected to remember the name of every informant eight years after the fact.
I didn't say he was an informant. But since you mentioned it, wasn't Esparza your primary informant?
 You're trespassing into the area of witness protection, Mr. Dowd. Such showboating puts lives at risk.
Isn't it true that without Esparza, you had no investigation?
 I think you're a dangerous man, Mr. Dowd.
I hope so, Mr. Reynard.
On the night of November 2, 1980, did Art Esparza phone you at home to say, "I just killed a man in Chinatown -- people saw me do it"?
 No.
No? Then what did he say?
Objection. Badgering the witness.
You'd worked too hard to let Esparza's crime of passion spoil everything. You ordered your team to comb through the mugbooks. Find a patsy. Frame him.  Protect your case.  Protect your career. Isn't that so?
That's an outrageous accus...
Putting away one punk enabled you to keep your informant out of prison and in place.
By keeping your informant out of prison and in place, you were able to complete your work. Ultimately you saved scores of lives, didn't you?
It was a trade-off, wasn't it?
A trade-off, yes...  I'd do it again.
The defense rests.
C'mon, Kim. Time to go.
Need a lift?
Shit, man -- let's get out of here.
