People do not give it credence that a young girl could leave home and go off in the wintertime to avenge her father's blood, but it did happen.
You might say, what business was it of my father's to meddle? My answer is this: he was trying to do that short devil a good turn. He was his brother's keeper. Does that answer your question?
 Is that the man?
Lord lord.
That is my father. Undertaker If you would loik to kiss him it would be all roight.
He has gone home. Praise the lord.
Put the lid on. Why is it so much?
The quality of the casket and of the embalming. The loifloik appearance requires time and art. And the chemicals come dear. The particulars are in your bill. If you would loik to kiss him it would be all roight.
No. Thank you. The spirit has flown. Your wire said fifty dollars.
You did not specify he was to be shipped.
Well sixty dollars is every cent we have. It leaves nothing for our board. Yarnell, you can see to the body's transport to the train station and accompany it home, and I will have to sleep here tonight.
I don't think your mama'd want you to stay in this town by yourself.
It can't be helped. I still have to collect father's things and see to some other business.
But I's your chap-a-rone! Your mama didn't say for you to see to no business here!
It is business Mama doesn't know about. It's all right, Yarnell, I dismiss you. Yarnell Well I'm not sure I--
Tell mama not to sign anything until I return home and see that Papa is buried in his mason's apron.
Here? Among these people?
These people?
I am expecting three more souls. Sullivan, Smith, and His Tongue In The Rain.
How is it that you know in advance?
Ladies and gentlemen beware and train up your children in the way that they should go! You see what has become of me because of drink. I killed a man in a trifling quarrel over a pocketknife.
If I had received good instruction as a child I would be with my wife and children today, away out on the Cimarron River. I don't know what is to become of them. I hope and pray that you will not slight them and compel them to go into low company.
Can you point out the sheriff?
Him with the mustaches.
Well, I killed the wrong man is the which-of-why I'm here. Had I killed the man I meant to I don't believe I would a been convicted. I see men out there in that crowd is worse than me.
I would like to say--
Oh!
Oh, Sullivan must'er lost weight in prison! His neck ain't broke!
Hot tamales?
No, we ain't arrested him. Ain't caught up to him, he lit out for the Territory. I would think he has throwed in with Lucky Ned Pepper, whose gang robbed a mail hack yesterday on the Poteau River.
Why are you not looking for him?
I have no authority in the Indian Nation. Tom Chaney is the business of the U.S. marshals now.
When will they arrest him?
Not soon I am afraid. The marshals are not well staffed and, I will tell you frankly, Chaney is at the end of a long list of fugitives and malefactors.
Could I hire a marshal to pursue Tom Chaney?
You have a lot of experience with bounty hunters?
My answer is this: That is a silly question. I am here to settle my father's affairs.
All alone?
I am the person for it. Mama was never any good at sums and she can hardly spell cat. I intend to see papa's killer hanged.
I see. Well. Nothing prevents you from offering a reward, or from so informing a marshal. It would have to be real money, though, to be persuasive. Chaney is across the river in the Choctaw Nation--lawless country. It will not be a daisy-picking expedition. Upwards of three-score US marshals have been slaughtered in the Territory.
I will see to the money. Who's the best marshal?
I would have to weigh that proposition. I reckon William Waters is the best tracker. He is half Comanche and it is something to see him cut for sign. The meanest one is Rooster Cogburn. He is a pitiless man, double tough and fear don't enter into his thinking. He loves to pull a cork. The best is probably L.T. Quinn, he brings his prisoners in alive. He may let one get by now and again but he believes even the worst of men is entitled to a fair shake. Quinn is a good peace officer and a lay preacher to boot. He will not plant evidence or abuse a prisoner. He is as straight as string. Yes, I will say Quinn is about the best they have.
Where can I find this Rooster?
The jakes is occupied.
I know it is occupied Mr. Cogburn. As I said, I have business with you.
I have prior business.
You have been at it for quite some time, Mr. Cogburn.
 There is no clock on my business! To hell with you! To hell with you! How did you stalk me here?!
The sheriff told me to look in the saloon. In the saloon they referred me here. We must talk.
 Women ain't allowed in the saloon!
I was not there as a customer. I am fourteen years old.
 The jakes is occupied. And will be for some time.
Yell County Hold at station
You can sleep in a coffin if you loik.
Not. . . yet.
Mattie strides along, looking at facades. She stops, looking at the signage on a barnlike building:
How much are you paying for cotton?
Nine and a half for low middling and ten for ordinary.
We got most of ours out early and sold it to Woodson Brothers in Little Rock for eleven cents.
Then I suggest you take the balance of it to the Woodson Brothers.
We took the balance to Woodson. We got ten and a half.
Why did you come here to tell me this?
I thought we might shop around up here next year but I guess we are doing all right in Little Rock. I am Mattie Ross, daughter of Frank Ross.
A tragic thing. May I say your father impressed me with his manly qualities. He was a close trader but he acted the gentleman. Mattie I propose to sell those ponies back to you that my father bought.
That, I fear, is out of the question. I will see that they are shipped to you at my earliest convenience.
We don't want the ponies now. We don't need them.
Well that hardly concerns me. Your father bought those five ponies and paid for them and there is an end of it. I have the bill of sale.
And I want three hundred dollars for Papa's saddle horse that was stolen from your stable.
You will have to take that up with the man who stole the horse.
Tom Chaney stole the horse while it was in your care. You are responsible.
I admire your sand but I believe you will find that I am not liable for such claims.
You were custodian. If you were a bank and were robbed you could not simply tell the depositors to go hang.
I do not entertain hypotheticals, the world as it is is vexing enough. Secondly, your valuation of the horse is high by about two hundred dollars. How old are you? Mattie If anything my price is low. Judy is a fine racing mare. She has won purses of twenty-five dollars; I have seen her jump an eight-rail fence with a heavy rider. I am fourteen.
Hmm. Well, that's all very interesting. The ponies are yours, take them. Your father's horse was stolen by a murderous criminal. I had provided reasonable protection for the creature as per our implicit agreement. My watchman had his teeth knocked out and can take only soup. We must each bear his own misfortunes.
I will take it to law.
You have no case.
Lawyer J. Noble Daggett of Dardanelle, Arkansas may think otherwise--as might a jury, petitioned by a widow and three small children.
Where is your mother?
She is at home in Yell County looking after my sister Victoria and my brother Little Frank.
I cannot make an agreement with a minor child. You are not accountable.
Lawyer Dagget will back up any decision I make, you may rest easy on that score. You can confirm any agreement by telegraph.
I will pay two hundred dollars to your father's estate when I have in my hand a letter from your lawyer absolving me of all liability from the beginning of the world to date. The offer is more than liberal and I make it only to avoid the possibility of troublesome litigation.
I will take two hundred dollars for Judy, plus one hundred for the ponies and twenty-five dollars for the gray horse that Tom Chaney left. He is easily worth forty. That is three hundred twenty-five dollars total.
The ponies have no part of this. I will not buy them.
Then the price for Judy is three hundred twenty-five dollars.
I would not pay three hundred and twenty-five dollars for winged Pegasus! As for the gray horse, it does not belong to you! And you are a snip!
The gray was lent to Tom Chaney by my father. Chaney only had the use of him. Your other points are beneath comment.
I will pay two hundred and twenty-five dollars and keep the gray horse. I don't want the ponies.
I cannot accept that.  There can be no settlement after I leave this office. It will go to law.
This is my last offer. Two hundred and fifty dollars. For that I get the release previously discussed and I keep your father's saddle. I am also writing off a feed and stabling charge. The gray horse is not yours to sell. You are an unnatural child.
The saddle is not for sale. I will keep it. Lawyer Dagget can prove ownership of the gray horse. He will come after you with a writ of replevin.
A what? All right, now listen very carefully as I will not bargain further. I will take the ponies back and keep the gray horse which is mine and settle for three hundred dollars. Now you must take that or leave it and I do not much care which it is.
Lawyer Daggett would not wish me to consider anything under three hundred twenty-five dollars. But I will settle for three hundred and twenty if I am given the twenty in advance. And here is what I have to say about the saddle--
Frank Ross's daughter. My poor child. My poor child.
You have my father's traps?
Oh yes we do. My poor child. Are you gawna be stayin with us or are you hurrying home to your mother?
I am staying briefly. I have business with Marshal Rooster Cogburn. I found him in his cups today but I understand he's to be in court tomorrow, testifying. I mean to engage him to hunt down Tom Chaney. Mrs. Floyd Well god bless him for that. The tariff here is seventy-five cents for room and supper. That does not include your daytime eats.
Very well.
Your father owed for two days, god bless him.
Oh. Well.
You'll share a room with Grandma Turner. We've had to double up, what with all the people in town come to see the hanging Judge Parker's put on for us.
Yes, I witnessed the hanging myself.
Was it a good'n?
This was in the poor man's room. This is everything, there are no light fingers in this house. If you need something for to tote the gun around I will give you an empty flour sack for a nickel.
The woman was out in the yard dead with blowflies on her face and the old man was inside with his breast blowed open by a scatter-gun and his feet burned. He was still alive but just was. He said them two Wharton boys had done it, rode up drunk--
Objection. Hearsay.
Dying declaration, your honor.
Overruled. Procede, Mr. Cogburn.
Them two Wharton boys--that'd be Odus and C.C.-- throwed down on him, asked him where his money was, when he wouldn't talk lit pine knots and held 'em to his feet. He told 'em in a fruit jar under a gray rock at one corner of the smokehouse. Mr. Barlow And then?
Well he died on us. Passed away in considerable pain.
What did you do then?
Me and Marshal Potter went out to the smokehouse and that rock had been moved and that jar was gone.
Objection. Speculative.
Sustained.
You found a flat gray rock at the corner of the smokehouse with a hollowed-out space under it?
If the prosecutor is going to give evidence I suggest that he be sworn.
Marshal Cogburn, what did you find, if anything, at the corner of the smokehouse?
We found a flat gray rock with a hollowed-out space under it. Nothin there.
And what did--
No jar or nothin.
What did you do then? Cogburn Well we rode up to the Whartons', near where the North Fork strikes the Canadian, branch of the Canadian.
And what did you find?
I had my glass and we spotted the two boys and their old daddy, Aaron Wharton, down there on the creek bank with some hogs. They'd killed a shoat and was butchering it. They'd built a fire under a wash pot for scalding water.
What did you do?
Crept down. I announced that we was U.S. marshals and hollered to Aaron that we needed to talk to his boys. He picked up a axe and commenced to cussing us and blackguarding this court.
What did you do then?
Backed away trying to talk some sense into him. But C.C. edges over by the wash pot and picks up a shotgun. Potter seen him but it was too late. C.C. Wharton pulled down on Potter with one barrel and then turned to do the same for me with the other. I shot him and when the old man swung the axe I shot him. Odus lit out and I shot him. Aaron Wharton and C.C. Wharton was dead when they hit the ground but Odus was just winged.
Did you find the jar with the hundred and twenty dollars in it?
Leading.
Sustained. Mr. Barlow What happened then?
I found the jar with a hundred and twenty dollars in it.
And what happened to Marshal Potter?
Died. Leaves a wife and six babies.
Objection.
Strike the comment.
And what became of Odus Wharton?
There he sets.
Okay. You may ask, Mr. Goudy.
Thank you, Mr. Barlow. In your four years as U.S. marshal, Mr. Cogburn, how many men have you shot?
Objection.
There is more to this shooting than meets the eye, Judge Parker. I will establish the bias of this witness.
Objection is overruled.
How many, Mr. Cogburn? Cogburn I never shot nobody I didn't have to.
That was not the question. How many?
. . . Shot or killed?
Let us restrict it to "killed" so that we may have a manageable figure.
Around twelve or fifteen. Stopping men in flight, defending myself, et cetera.
Around twelve or fifteen. So many that you cannot keep a precise count. Remember, you are under oath. I have examined the records and can supply the accurate figure.
I believe them two Whartons make twenty-three.
Twenty-three dead men in four years.
It is a dangerous business.
How many members of this one family, the Wharton family, have you killed?
Immediate, or--
Your honor, perhaps counsel should be advised that the marshal is not the defendant in this action. Mr. Barlow The history is relevant your honor. Goes to Cogburn's methods and animosities.
Okay.
Did you also shoot Dub Wharton, brother, and Clete Wharton, half-brother?
Clete was selling ardent spirits to the Cherokee. He come at me with a king bolt.
You were armed and he advanced upon you with nothing but a king bolt? From a wagon tongue?
I've seen men badly tore up with things no bigger than a king bolt. I defended myself.
And, returning to the encounter with Aaron and his two remaining sons, you sprang from cover with your revolver in hand?
I did.
Loaded and cocked?
If it ain't loaded and cocked it don't shoot.
And like his son, Aaron Wharton advanced against an armed man?
He was armed. He had that axe raised. Mr. Goudy Yes. I believe you testified that you backed away from Aaron Wharton?
That is right.
Which direction were you going?
I always go backwards when I'm backing up.
Very amusing I suppose--for all of us except Aaron Wharton. Now, he advanced upon you much in the manner of Clete Wharton menacing you with that king bolt or rolled- up newspaper or whatever it was.
Yes sir. He commenced to cussing and laying about with threats.
And you were backing away? How many steps before the shooting started?
Seven, eight steps?
Aaron Wharton keeping pace, advancing, away from the fire seven eight steps--what would that be, fifteen, twenty feet?
I suppose.
Will you explain to the jury, Mr. Cogburn, why Mr. Wharton was found immediately by the wash pot with one arm in the fire, his sleeve and hand smoldering?
Well. Mr. Goudy Did you move the body after you shot him?
Why would I do that?
You did not drag his body over to the fire? Fling his arm in?
No sir.
Two witnesses who arrived on the scene will testify to the location of the body. You do not remember moving the body? So it was a bushwack, as he tended his campfire?
Objection.
I, if that was where the body was I might have moved him. I do not remember.
Why would you move the body, Mr. Cogburn?
Them hogs rooting around might have moved him. I do not remember.
Son of a goddamn bitch.
Rooster Cogburn?
What is it.
I would like to talk with you a minute.
What is it.
They tell me you are a man with true grit.
What do you want, girl? Speak up. It is suppertime.
Let me do that.
What is your name, girl?
My name is Mattie Ross. We are located in Yell County. My mother is at home looking after my sister Victoria and my brother Little Frank.
You had best go home to them. They will need help with the churning.
There is a fugitive warrant out for Chaney. The government will pay you two dollars for bringing him in plus ten cents a mile for each of you. On top of that I will pay you a fifty- dollar reward.
What are you?  What've you got there in your poke?
I intend to kill Tom Chaney with it if the law fails to do so.
Well, that piece will do the job--if you can find a high stump to rest it on and a wall to put behind you.
Nobody here knew my father and I am afraid nothing much is going to be done about Chaney except I do it. My brother is a child and my mother is indecisive and hobbled by grief.
I don't believe you have fifty dollars.
I will shortly. I have a contract with Colonel Stonehill which he will make payment on tomorrow or the next day, once a lawyer countersigns.
I don't believe fairy tales or sermons or stories about money, baby sister. But thank you for the cigarette.
Isn't your mother expecting you home, dear? I did not think to see you this evening.
My business is not yet finished. Mrs. Floyd, have any rooms opened up? Grandma Turner. . . the bed is quite narrow.
The second-floor back did open up but the gentleman on the porch has just taken it. But don't worry yourself, dear--you are not disturbing Grandma Turner.
You are sleeping the day away.
I am not well.
You do not look well. My name is LeBoeuf. I have just come from Yell County.
We have no rodeo clowns in Yell County.
A saucy line will not get you far with me. I saw your mother yesterday morning. She says for you to come right on home.
Hm. What was your business there?
This is a man I think you know.
Why did you not catch him in Monroe, Louisiana or Pine Bluff, Arkansas? LeBoeuf He is a crafty one.
I thought him slow-witted myself.
That was his act.
It was a good one. Are you some kind of law?
That's right. I am a Texas Ranger.
That may make you a big noise in that state; in Arkansas you should mind that your Texas trappings and title do not make you an object of fun. Why have you been ineffectually pursuing Chaney?
He shot and killed a state senator named Bibbs down in Waco, Texas. The Bibbs family have put out a reward.
How came Chaney to shoot a state senator?
My understanding is there was an argument about a dog. Do you know anything about where Chaney has gone?
He is in the Territory, and I hold out little hope for you earning your bounty.
Why is that?
My man will beat you to it. I have hired a deputy marshal, the toughest one they have, and he is familiar with the Lucky Ned Pepper gang that they say Chaney has tied up with.
Well, I will throw in with you and your marshal.
No. Marshal Cogburn and I are fine.
It'll be to our mutual advantage. Your marshal I presume knows the Territory; I know Chaney. It is at least a two-man job taking him alive.
When Chaney is taken he is coming back to Fort Smith to hang. I am not having him go to Texas to hang for shooting some senator.
Haw-haw! It is not important where he hangs, is it?
It is to me. Is it to you?
It means a great deal of money to me. It's been many months' work.
I'm sorry that you are paid piecework not on wages, and that you have been eluded the winter long by a halfwit. Marshal Cogburn and I are fine.
You give out very little sugar with your pronouncements. While I sat there watching you I gave some thought to stealing a kiss, though you are very young and sick and unattractive to boot, but now I have a mind to give you five or six good licks with my belt.
One would be as unpleasant as the other. If you wet your comb, it might tame that cowlick.
Try some Dr. Underwood's. You may feel giddy but do not be alarmed as that is only the medicine working.
I will charge you ten cents. It probably means a loss for me, but it is hard to figure the exact proportion of the bottle. . .
The door bangs open at the cut and Mattie emerges with an envelope.
Mattie. I wish you would leave these matters entirely to me, or at the very least do me the courtesy of consulting me before entering such agreements. I am not scolding you, but I am saying your headstrong ways will lead you into a tight corner one day. I trust the enclosed document will let you conclude your business and return to Dardanelle. Your mother is in a panic and begging me to fetch you back home. Yours, J. Noble Dagget.
I was as bad yesterday as you look today. I was forced to share a bed with Grandma Turner.
I am not acquainted with Grandma Turner. If she is a resident of this city it does not surprise me that she carries disease. I was told this malarial place was to be the Chicago of the Southwest. Well, my little friend, it is not the Chicago of the Southwest. I cannot rightly say what it is, but it has ruined my health as it has my finances.
You have not traded poorly.
Certainly not. I am paying you for a horse I do not possess and have bought back a string of useless ponies I cannot sell again.
You are forgetting the gray horse.
Crowbait.
You are looking at the thing in the wrong light.
I am looking at it in the light of God's eternal truth.
Your illness is putting you "down in the dumps." You will soon find a buyer for the ponies.
I have a tentative offer of ten dollars per head from the Pfitzer Soap Works of Little Rock.
It would be a shame to destroy such spirited horseflesh.
So it would. I am confident the deal will fall through.
Look here. I need a pony. I will pay ten dollars for one of them. Stonehill No. That was lot price. No no. Wait a minute. Are we trading again? I just handed you twenty dollars each for those ponies and you now propose to buy one back for ten? Little girl: I will give you ten dollars to refrain from doing any more business here. It would be the most astute deal I have struck in Arkansas.
This one is beautiful.
He don't know they's a person up there. You too light.
He thinks he got a horsefly on him.
Mattie He is very spirited. I will call him "Little Blackie."
Das a good name.
What does he like for a treat?
Ma'am, he is a horse, so he likes apples.
Thank Mr. Stonehill for me.
No ma'am. . . I ain't s'posed to utter your name.
See. Sleep.
That is fine. I will wake him.
Won't like.
Mr. Cogburn, it is I. Mattie Ross, your employer.
Whuh.
How long til you are ready to go?
Go whar?
Into the Indian Territory. In pursuit of Tom Chaney.
Whah. . .
Toad her no good!
I said fifty dollars to retrieve Chaney. You did not believe me?
Well, I did not know. You are a hard one to figure.
How long for you to make ready to depart?
Well now wait now, sis. I remember your offer but do not remember agreeing to it. If I'm going up against Ned Pepper I will need a hundred dollars. I can tell you that much. Hundred dollars! I am not pursuing his gang through Arkansas, where there is law, and the criminal is out of his element. They are in the Territory, in their element, where there is no law and the marshal stands alone.
You are trying to take advantage of me.
I am giving you the children's rate. I am not a sharper, I am an old man sleeping in a rope bed in a room behind a Chinese grocery. I should burn this damn thing. It is no good for my back, sister. I have nothing.
You want to be kept in whiskey.
I don't have to buy that, I confiscate it. I am an officer of the court.
I shall not niggle. Can we depart this afternoon?
We?!
You misjudge me if you think I am silly enough to give you fifty dollars and simply watch you ride off.
I am a bonded U.S. marshal!
That weighs but little with me. I will see the thing done.
You never said anything about this. I cannot go up against Ned Pepper and a band of hard men and look after a baby at the same time.
I am not a baby.
I will not be stopping at boarding houses with warm beds and plates of hot grub on the table. It will be traveling fast and eating light. What little sleeping is done will take place on the ground.
I have slept out at night. Papa took me and Little Frank coon hunting last summer on the Petit Jean. We were in the woods all night. We sat around a big fire and Yarnell told ghost stories. We had a good time.
Coon hunting! This ain't no coon hunt, it don't come within forty miles of being a coon hunt!
It is the same idea as a coon hunt. You are just trying to make your work sound harder than it is. Here is the money. I aim to get Tom Chaney and if you are not game I will find somebody who is game. All I have heard out of you so far is talk. I know you can drink whiskey and snore and spit and wallow in filth and bemoan your station. The rest has been braggadocio. They told me you had grit and that is why I came to you. I am not paying for talk. I can get all the talk I need and more at the Monarch Boarding House.
Leave the money. Meet me here tomorrow morning at seven o'clock and we will begin our coon hunt.
Dearest Mother. I am about to embark on a great adventure. Or dare I call it a mission, for shall any of us rest easy ere Papa's death is avenged? My investigations in Fort Smith lead me to believe that Tom Chaney can be found and brought to justice, and I have made arrangements to that end. I will return to you once I have seen them properly carried through. . .
But do not worry on my account. Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I shall fear no evil. The author of all things watches over me. And I have a fine horse. Kiss Little Frankie for me and pinch Violet's cheek. I am off for the Choctaw Nation.
Where is Marshal Cogburn!
Went away. . .
Away! Where?
Here inside is a train ticket for your return home. Use it. By the time you read this I will be across the river in the Indian nation. Pursuit would be futile. I will return with your man Chaney. Leave me to my work. Reuben Cogburn.
Is that Marshal Cogburn?
That is the man.
Who's he with?
I do not know.
Take me across.
So you're the runaway. Marshal told me you'd show up. I'm to present you to the sheriff.
That is a story. Let go my horse. I have business across the river.
Name ain't Slim.
Run, Little Blackie!
Hey!
Good, Little Blackie!
That's quite a horse.
From the money you stole from me?
That was not stolen. I'm out for your man.
I was to accompany you. If I do not, there is no agreement and my money was stolen.
Marshal, put this child back on the ferry. We have a long road, and time is a-wasting.
If I go back, it is to the office of the U.S. marshals to report the theft of my money. And futile, Marshal Cogburn-- "Pursuit would be futile"?--is not spelt f-u-d-e-l.
Little sister, it is time for your spanking.
Help me, Marshal!
 Now you do as the grown-ups say! Or I will get myself a birch switch and stripe your leg!
Now we will see what tune you sing!
Are you going to let him do this, Marshal?
No, I don't believe I will. Put your switch away, LeBoeuf. She has got the best of us.
She has not got the best of me!
 Did you not hear me? That will do, I said.
I aim to finish what I started.
That will be the biggest mistake you ever made, you Texas brush-popper.
Hoorawed by a little girl.
I am not accustomed to so large a fire. In Texas, we will make do with a fire of little more than twigs or buffalo chips to heat the night's ration of beans.
He has a store.
A store. That makes him an authority on movements in the Territory?
We have entered a wild place. Anyone coming in, wanting any kind of supply, cannot pick and choose his portal.
That is a piece of foolishness. All the snakes are asleep this time of year.
They have been known to wake up.
Let me have a rope too.
A snake would not bother you.
I am not going down there again. If you want any more water you can fetch it yourself. Rooster Everyone in my party must do his job.
You are lucky to be traveling in a place where a spring is so handy. In my country you can ride for days and see no ground water. I have lapped filthy water from a hoofprint and was glad to have it.
If I ever meet one of you Texas waddies that says he never drank water from a horse track I think I will shake his hand and give him a Daniel Webster cigar.
You don't believe it?
I believed it the first twenty-five times I heard it. Maybe it is true. Maybe lapping water off the ground is Ranger policy.
You are getting ready to show your ignorance now, Cogburn. I don't mind a little personal chaffing but I won't hear anything against the Ranger troop from a man like you.
How long have you boys been mounted on sheep down there?
My shaggy horse will be galloping when that big American stud of yours is winded and collapsed. Now make another joke about it. You are only trying to put on a show for this girl Mattie with what you must think is a keen tongue.
This is like women talking.
Yes, that is the way! Make me out foolish in this girl's eyes. Rooster I think she has got you pretty well figured.
Would you two like to hear the story of "The Midnight Caller"? One of you will have to be "The Caller." I will tell you what to say. I will do all the other parts myself.
Good morning, Marshal.
 Morning.
Where is Mr. LeBoeuf?
Down the hill. Performing his necessaries.
Marshal Cogburn, I welcome the chance for a private parley. I gather that you and Mr. LeBoeuf have come to some sort of agreement. As your employer I believe I have a right to know the particulars. Rooster The particulars is that we bring Chaney in to the magistrate in San Saba Texas where they have a considerable reward on offer. Which we split.
I did not want him brought to Texas, to have Texas punishment administered for a Texas crime. That was not our agreement.
What you want is to have him caught and punished.
I want him to know he is being punished for killing my father.
You can let him know that. You can tell him to his face. You can spit on him and make him eat sand out of the road. I will hold him down. If you want I will flay the flesh off the soles of his feet and find you an Indian pepper to rub into the wound. Isn't that a hundred dollars' value?
It is not. When I have bought and paid for something I will have my way. Why do you think I am paying you if not to have my way?
It is time for you to learn you cannot have your way in every little particular. Other people have their interests.
Little Blackie and I are riding back to the U.S. marshals' office. This is fraud.
God damn it!
What's going on?
 This is a business conversation.
Is that what you call it. It sounds to me like you are still being hoorawed by a little girl.
Did you say hooraw!
That was the word.
I will show you hooraw!
There is no hoorawing in it. My agreement with the Marshal antedates yours. It has the force of law.
 The force of law! This man is a notorious thumper! He rode by the light of the moon with Quantrill and Bloody Bill Anderson!
Those men was patriots, Texas trash!
They murdered women and children in Lawrence, Kansas.
I have heard that too. It is a damned lie! What army was you in, mister?
I was at Shreveport first with Kirby-Smith--
What side was you on?
I was in the army of Northern Virginia, Cogburn, and I don't have to hang my head when I say it!
If you had served with Captain Quantrill--
Captain Quantrill indeed!
You had best let this go, LeBoeuf!
Captain of what!
Good, then! There are not sufficient dollars in the state of Texas to make it worth my while to listen to your opinions, day and night. Our agreement is nullified--it's each man for himself!
That suits me!
We don't need him, do we Marshal?
 We'll miss his Sharp's carbine. It's apt to get lively out here.
Hey.
Call that sport, do ya?
Stay here sister. I will see Bagby.
Has Chaney been here? Rooster No.
But Coke Hayes was, two days ago. Coke runs with Lucky Ned. He bought supplies, with this.
This is Papa's gold piece! Tom Chaney, here we come!
It is not the world's only California gold piece.
They are rare, here.
They are rare. But if it is Chaney's, it could just as easily mean that Lucky Ned and his gang fell upon him, as that he fell in with them. Chaney could be a corpse. These are a rough lot.
That would be a bitter disappointment, Marshal. What do we do?
We pursue. Ned is unfinished business for the marshals anyhow, and when we have him we will also have Chaney --or we can learn the whereabouts of his body. Bagby doesn't know which way they went, but now we know they come through here, they couldn't be going but one of two ways: north toward the Winding Stair Mountains, or pushing on further west. I suspect north. There is more to rob.
Mr. Ferrington will want to know who cut loose his mule.
Tell him it was Mr. James, a bank examiner from Clay County, Missouri.
The James boys is said to be slight, Frank and Jesse both.
One of them has grown fat. The mule will not range far. You boys mend your ways or I will return some dark night and cut off one of your heads--I do not say which--and leave it on the stomach of the other as a warning.
Potter and I served with him at Elkhorn Tavern. Even latterly our activities was by and large martial. We did though, one time, run across a Yankee paymaster and relieve him of four thousand dollars in gold coin. Squealed like it was his own money. Well, since hostilities was officially ended it was technically criminal so Potter rode down to Arkansas and I went to Cairo Illinois with my share, started calling myself Burroughs and opened an eating place called The Green Frog. I married a grass widow but my drinking picked up and my wife did not like the company of my river friends. She decided to go back to her first husband, a clerk in a hardware store. She said, "Goodbye, Reuben, a love for decency does not abide in you." I told her, "Goodbye, Nola, I hope that little nail-selling bastard will make you happy this time." She took my boy with her too. He never did like me anyhow. I guess I did speak awful rough to him but I did not mean nothing by it. You would not want to see a clumsier child than Horace. I bet he broke forty cups. . .
Hey!
Is it Chaney?
I would not recognize the soles of his feet.
Step back now.
God damn it.
Snagged. Well you are going to have to clamber on up with this knife. I am too old and too fat.
It had one billiard table, served ladies and men both but mostly men. I tried to run it myself a while but I couldn't keep good help and I never did learn how to buy meat. I was like a man fighting bees. Finally I give up and solt it and went out to see the country.
You are doing well.
I believe not.
No! Cut him down!
Why?
I might know him.
Why did they hang him so high?
I don't know. Possibly in the belief it would make him more dead.
I do not know this man.
He knew the hanged man?
He did not. But it is a dead body, possibly worth something in trade.
She had taken a notion she wanted me to be a lawyer. Bought a heavy book called Daniels on Negotiable Instruments and set me to reading it. Never could get a grip on it and I was happy enough to set it aside and leave Texas. There ain't but about six trees between there and Canada, and nothing else grows but has stickers on it. I went to--
I knew it.
Knew what?
We're being followed. I asked the Indian to signal with a shot if there was someone on our trail.
Should we be concerned, Marshal?
No. It's Mr. LeBoeuf, using us as bird dogs in hopes of cutting in once we've flushed the prey. Our Texas friend has got just enough sense to recognize he can't outtrack me.
Perhaps we could double back over our tracks, and confuse the trail in a clever way.
No, we will wait right here and offer our friend a warm hello, and ask him where he is going.
You are not LeBoeuf.
My name is Forster. I practice dentistry in the Nation. Also, veterinary arts. And medicine, on those humans that will sit still for it. Rooster  You have your work cut out for you there.
Traded for him with an Indian, who said he came by him honestly. I gave up two dental mirrors and a bottle of expectorant.  Do either of you need medical attention?
No.
I have my bearskin. You might want to head to the Original Greaser Bob's. He notched a dugout into a hollow along the Carrillon River. If you ride the river you won't fail to see it. Greaser Bob--Original Greaser Bob--is hunting north of the picket wire and would not begrudge its use.
I have taken his teeth. I will entertain an offer for the rest of him.
Take my jacket. Creep onto the roof. If they are not friendly I will give you a sign to damp the chimney.
Who is out there?
We are looking for shelter.
No room for you here! Ride on!
Who all is in there?
Ride on!
I am a Federal officer! Who is in there? Speak up and be quick about it.
A Methodist and a son-of-a-bitch!
Is that Emmett Quincy?
I don't know any Emmett Quincy.
Listen here, Emmett Quincy. I know it is you! This is Rooster Cogburn. Columbus Potter and five other marshals is out here with me. We have got a bucket of coal oil. In one minute we will burn you out from both ends! Chuck your arms clear and come out with your hands locked on your head and you will not be harmed. Oncet that coal oil goes down the chimney we are killing everything that comes out the door!
There's only two of you!
You go ahead and bet your life on it! How many of you is in there?
Me and Moon, but he is hit! He can't walk!
Drag him out! Light that lamp! Thinking beat.
Tell them other officers to be careful with their guns! We are coming out!
Down in the snow! Lie still while I cuff you! We is only two, but my man on the roof will shoot you if you get feisty.
You said it was a man on the roof. I thought it was Potter.
You was always dumb, Quincy, and remain true to form.
That is our supper and breakfast both. I like a big breakfast.
Sofky always cooks up bigger than you think.
And a good store of whiskey as well. What are you boys up to, outside of cooking banquets? You are way too jumpy.
We didn't know who was out there weather like this. It might have been some crazy man. Anyone can say he is a marshal.
My leg hurts.
I'll bet it does. When is the last time you seen your old pard Ned Pepper?
Ned Pepper? I don't know him. Who is he?
I'm surprised you don't remember him. He is a little fellow, nervous and quick. His lip is all messed up.
That don't bring anybody to mind.
There is a new boy that might be running with Ned. He is short himself and he has got a powder mark on his face, a black place. He calls himself Chaney, or Chelmsford sometimes. Carries a Henry rifle.
That don't bring anybody to mind. Black mark, I would remember that.
You don't remember anything I want to know, do you Quincy? I hope you don't mind. . .
I don't know those boys. I always try to help out the law.
By the time we get back to Fort Smith that leg will be swelled up tight as Dick's hatband. It will be mortified and they will cut it off. Then if you live I will get you two or three years in the Federal house up in Detroit.
You are trying to get at me.
They will teach you to read and write up there but the rest of it won't be so good. Them boys can be hard on a gimp.
You are trying to get at me.
You give me some good information on Ned and I will take you to McAlester's store tomorrow get that ball taken out of your leg. Then I will give you three days to clear the Territory.
We don't know those boys you are looking for.
It ain't his leg.
Don't go to flapping your mouth, Moon. It is best to let me do the talking.
I would say if I knew. . . Quincy We are weary trappers.
The man Chaney with the marked face killed my father. He was a whiskey drinker like you and it led to killing in the end. If you answer the marshal's questions he will help you. I have a good lawyer at home and he will help you too.
I am puzzled by this.  Why is she here?
Don't go jawing with these people, Moon. Don't go jawing with that runt.
 I don't like you. I hope you go to jail. My lawyer will not help you.
My leg is giving me fits.
Yes, a young fellow like you don't want to loose his leg. You are too young to be getting about on a willow peg. You love dancing and sport, carrying on.
Easy now. He is trying to get at you.
I am getting at you with the truth.
We seen Ned and Haze two days ago. We's supposed--
Don't act the fool! If you blow I will kill you!
I am played out. I must have a doctor. We's supposed--
God damn it!
Oh lord, I am dying!
I can do nothing for you, son. Your pard has killed you and I have done for him.
Don't leave me lying here! Don't let the wolves rip me up!
I'll see you are buried right. You tell me about Ned. Where did you see him?
Two days ago at McAlester's store. They are coming here tonight to get remounts, and sofky. They just robbed the Katy Flyer at Wagoner's Switch if the snow didn't stop 'em.
Should I tell him you was outlawed up?
It don't matter, he knows I am on the scout. I will meet him later walking the streets of Glory!
Don't be looking for Quincy.
Hobble our mounts in the corral out back. We don't know when they's coming.
Is he dead?
He is. I stowed the bodies under the blanket there. Just needs to look right enough to get 'em in the door.
What was that?
Fingers.
What do we do now?
We wait. They ride up, what we want is to get them all in the dugout. I will kill the last one to go in and then we will have them in a barrel.
You will shoot him in the back?
It will give them to know our intentions is serious. Then I will call down and see if they will be taken alive. If they won't I will shoot them as they come out. I am hopeful that three of their party being dead will take the starch out of them.
You display great poise.
It is just a turkey shoot. There was one time in New Mexico, when Bo was a strong colt and I myself had less tarnish, we was being pursued by seven men. I turned Bo around and taken the reins in my teeth and rode right at them boys firing them two navy sixes I carry on my saddle. Well I guess they was all married men who loved their families as they scattered and run for home.
That is hard to believe.
What is?
One man riding at seven.
It is true enough. You go for a man hard enough and fast enough and he don't have time to think about how many is with him--he thinks about himself and how he may get clear of the wrath that is about to set down on him.
Why were they pursuing you?
They was in the nature of a posse.
You were particeps criminis in something other than the case of the Yankee paymaster?
I robbed a high-interest bank. You can't rob a thief, can you? I never robbed a citizen. Never took a man's watch. Mattie It is all stealing.
That is the position they took in New Mexico.
Hello?
We have to warn him, Marshal!
Too late.
Oh!
What do we do, Marshal?
We sit. What does he do?
He is a fine one for not drawing attention to himself.
Him in the woolly chaps is Lucky Ned.
Well, that's that.
Well that didn't pan out.
You managed to put a kink in my rope, pardner.
I am theverely injured.
Yes you got drug some.
Altho shshot. By a rifle.
That is quite possible. The scheme did not develop as I had planned. You have been shot in the shoulder but the ball passed through. It will pain you in the years to come. What happened to your mouth?
I believe I beh mythelf.
Couple of teeth missing and yes, the tongue is bit almost through. Do you want to see if it will knit or should I just yank it free? I know a teamster who bit his tongue off being thrown from a horse. After a time he learned to make himself more or less understood.
Hngnickh.
What's that now?
Knit.
Very well. It is impossible to bind a tongue wound. The shoulder we will kit out.
I thaw him too. Ith how I came to be here.
Neither of these men are Chaney, Marshal.
I know it. I know them both. The ugly one is Coke Hayes. Him uglier still is Clement Parmalee. Parmalee and his brothers have a silver claim in the Winding Stair Mountains and I will bet you that's where Lucky Ned's gang is waiting. We'll sleep here, follow in the morning.
We promised to bury the poor soul inside.
Ground is too hard. If these men wanted a decent burial they should have got themselves kilt in summer.
Sleep well, Little Blackie. . .
Azh I understand it, Chaney--or Chelmzhford, azh he called himshelf in Texas--shot the shenator'zh dog. When the shenator remonshtrated Chelmzhford shot him azh well. You could argue that the shooting of the dog wazh merely an inshtansh of malum prohibitum, but the shooting of a shenator izh indubitably an inshtansh of malum in shay.
Malla-men what?
Malum in se. The distinction is between an act that is wrong in itself, and an act that is wrong only according to our laws and mores. It is Latin.
I am struck that LeBoeuf is shot, trampled, and nearly severs his tongue and not only does not cease to talk but spills the banks of English.
 I wuzh within three hundred yardzh of Chelmzhford once. The closhesht I have been. With the Sharp'sh carbine, that izh within range. But I wuzh mounted, and had the choish of firing off-hand, or dishmounting to shoot from resht--which would allow Chelmzhford to augment the dishtansh. I fired mounted--and fired wide.
. . . You could not hit a man at three hundred yards if the gun was resting on Gibraltar.
The Sharp'sh carbine izh an inshtrument of uncanny power and precizhun.
I have no doubt that the gun is sound.
That was "Johnny in the Low Ground." There are very few fiddle tunes I have not heard. Once heard they are locked in my mind forever. It is a sadness to me that I have sausage fingers that cannot crowd onto a fretboard--little fat girls at a cotillion. "Soldier's Joy"!
I don't believe he shlept.
Fort Smith is a healthy distance, LeBoeuf, but I would encourage the creature you ride to try to make it in a day. Out here a one-armed man looks like easy prey.
And a one-eyed man--who can't shshoodt? Why don't you tshurn back, Khoghburn?
I will do fine.
In conscschiensh you cannot shite our agreement. You are the pershon who shshot me.
Mr. LeBoeuf has a point, Marshal. It is an unfair leg-up in any competition to shoot your opposite number.
God damn it! I don't accept it as a given that I did shoot LeBoeuf. There was plenty of guns going off.
I heard a rifle and felt the ball. You mishshed your shshodt, Khoghburn, admit it. You are more handicapped without the eye than I without the arm.
Missed my shot! I can hit a gnat's eye at ninety yards!
He shoots a third time and the bottle shatters.
The chinaman is running them cheap shells on me again.
I tdhought you were going to shay the shun was in your eyezh. That izh to shay, your eye.
Two at one time!
I will chunk one high. Hold fire.
There.
There?! My bullet!
Your bullet? If you hit what you aim at, eckshplain my shoulder!
Gentlemen, shooting cornbread out here on the prairie is getting us no closer to the Ned Pepper gang.
One more, this will prove it. Hold fire!
Azh I shed, Khoghburn.
Did you not see the piece fly off?!
Find our way back!
Lucky Ned!
Very good, Khoghburn. Now what.
Cogburn does not want me eating out of his store.
That is silly. You have not eaten the whole day, and it is my store not his.
Let him starve!
He does not track! He does not shoot--except at foodstuffs!--
That wazh your idea.
--He does not contribute! He is a millstone, with opinions! He is a man who walks in front of bullets!
Mr. LeBoeuf drew single-handed upon the Lucky Ned Pepper Gang while we fired safely from cover, like a band of sly Injuns!
We?
It is unfair to indict a man when his jaw is swollen and tongue mangled and who is therefore unable to rise to his own defense!
I can thpeak for mythelf. I am hardly obliged to anther the ravingth of a drunkard. It ith beneath me.
Take the girl! I bow out!
A fine thing to deshide once you have brought her into the middle of the Choctaw Nation. Rooster I bow out! I wash my hands!
Gentlemen, we cannot fall out in this fashion, so close to our goal, with Tom Chaney nearly in hand!
In hand?! If he is not in a shallow grave, somewhere between here and Fort Smith, he is gone! Long gone! Thanks to Mr. LeBoeuf, we missed our shot! We have barked, and the birds have flown! Gone gone gone! Lucky Ned and his cohort, gone! Your fifty dollars, gone! Gone the whiskey seized in evidence! The trail is cold, if ever there was one! I am a foolish old man who has been drawn into a wild goose chase by a harpy in trousers--and a nincompoop! Well, Mr. LeBoeuf can wander the Choctaw Nation for as long as he likes; perhaps the local Indians will take him in and honor his gibberings by making him Chief! You, sister, may go where you like! I return home! Our engagement is terminated! I bow out!
I am going with you.
Oh, that izh not poshible.
Have I held you back? I have a Colt's dragoon revolver which I know how to use, and I would be no more of a burden to you than I was to the marshal.
That izh not my worry. You have earned your shpurzh, that izh clear enough--you have been a regular "old hand" on the trail. But Cogburn izh right, even if I would not give him the shatishfaction of consheding it. The trail izh cold, and I am conshiderably diminished.
How can you give up now, after the many months you've dedicated to finding Chaney? You have shown great determination. I misjudged you. I picked the wrong man.
I would go on in your company if there were clear way to go. But we would be shtriking out blindly. Chelmshford izh gone--we have chaished him right off the map. There izh nothing for it. I am bound for Texash, and it izh time for you to go home too.
I will not go back. Not without Chaney, dead or alive.
I misjudged you as well. I eckshtend my hand.
Mr. LeBoeuf! Please!
Adiosh!
Well now I know you. Your name is Mattie. You are little Mattie the bookkeeper. Isn't this something.
Yes, and I know you, Tom Chaney.
What are you doing here?
I came to fetch water.
I mean what are you doing here in these mountains?
I have not been formally deputized but I am acting as an agent for Marshal Reuben Cogburn and Judge Parker's court.
Well I will not go. How do you like that?
There is a posse of officers up on the hill who will force you to go.
That is interesting news. How many is up there?
Right around fifty. They are all well armed and they mean business. What I want you to do now is come on across the creek and walk in front of me up the hill.
I think I will oblige the officers to come after me.
If you refuse to go I will have to shoot you.
Oh? Then you had better cock your piece.
I know how to do it.
I think not. It is just the other way around. You are going with me. I will--
I did not think you would do it.
What do you think now?
One of my short ribs is broken. It hurts jiggers every breath I take.
You killed my father when he was trying to help you. I have one of the gold pieces you took from him. Now give me the other.
I regret that shooting. Mr. Ross was decent to me but he ought not to have meddled in my business.
Mattie!
I am down here! Chaney is taken into custody!
I was drinking and I was mad through and through. Nothing has gone right for me.
No, you are just a piece of trash, that is all.
Everything is against me. Now I am shot by a child.
Stop!
Help me! Down here! Hurry up!
 Take them horses you got and move!
Marshal Cogburn and fifty more officers.
Tell me another lie and I will stove your head in!
Just the marshal.
Cogburn! Do you hear me?
The girl is nothing to me! She is a runaway from Arkansas!
That is very well! Do you advise me to kill her?
Do what you think is best, Ned! She is nothing to me but a lost child!
I have already thought it over! You get mounted double fast! If I see you riding over that bald ridge to the northwest I will spare the girl. You have five minutes!
I will need more than five minutes!
I will not give you more time.
There will be a party of marshals in here soon, Ned! Let me have Chaney and the girl and I will mislead them for six hours!
Too thin, Rooster! Too thin! Your five minutes is running! No more talk!
I am leaving but you must give me time!
Up that hill!
Quiet there! The idiot makes a pig-squealing sound in acknowledgment and then falls quiet, loping alongside Mattie and Lucky Ned.
You will not shoot me.
I will do what I have to do.
Can I have some of that bacon?
Help yourself. Have some of the coffee.
I do not drink coffee. I am fourteen.
We do not have buttermilk. And we do not have bread. We are poorly supplied. What are you doing here?
I will wring your scrawny neck!
Let that go! Farrell, see to his wound. What happened? What are you doing here?
I will tell you what and you will see that I am in the right. Tom Chaney there shot my father to death in Fort Smith and robbed him of two gold pieces and stole his mare. Her name is Judy but I did not see her down at the river. I was informed Rooster Cogburn had grit and I hired him out to find the murderer. A few minutes ago I came upon Chaney watering the horses. He would not be taken in charge and I shot him. If I had killed him I would not be now in this fix. My revolver misfired.
They will do it. It will embarrass you every time. Most girls like to play pretties, but you like guns do you?
I do not care a thing in the world about guns. If I did I would have one that worked.
I was shot from ambush, Ned. The horses was blowing and making noise. It was that officer that got me.
How can you sit there and tell such a big story?
That pit is a hundred feet deep and I will throw you into it and leave you to scream and rot! How do you like that?
No you won't. This man will not let you have your way. He is your boss and you must do as he tells you.
Five minutes is well up!
I will give him a little more time.
How much more?
Til I think he has had enough.
Hold fast a while there, Doctor!
Why doesn't the Doctor do that?
He is not a medical doctor. Was that Rooster waylaid us night before last?
It was Marshal Cogburn and myself.
Yourself, eh? You and Cogburn, quite the posse.
Lucky Ned lowers the glass and takes a gun and shoots skyward. He raises the glass again.
Your friend is gone. You are alone.
You are too nervous, Doctor. It will be hours before he is back with help.
They are both dead. I was in the very middle of it. It was a terrible thing to see. Do you need a good lawyer?
I need a good judge. What about Coke Hayes--the old fellow shot off his horse?
Dead as well. His depredations have come to an end.
Poor Coke. He rode back for me. Coke Hayes had spine, and could keep his wits in a tight spot. Dead now, but he should have been dead ten times afore now. Your friend Rooster does not collect many prisoners. Mattie He is not my friend. He has abandoned me to a congress of louts.
You do not varnish your opinions.
Do an owl, Harold!
Hoo! Hoo! Hoo!
Let us cut up the winnings from the Katie Flyer.
There will be time for that at The Old Place.
I will saddle the grey.
I have other plans for you.
Must I double-mount with the Doctor?
No, it will be too chancy with two men up if it comes to a race. You will wait here with the girl. When we reach Ma's house I will send Carroll back with a fresh mount. You will be out by dark and we will wait for you at The Old Place.
I don't like that. Let me ride with you, Ned, just out of here anyway.
No. We are short a horse. It can't be helped.
Marshals will come swarming.
Hours, if they come here at all. They will guess we are all gone.
I am not staying here by myself with Tom Chaney.
That is the way I will have it.
He will kill me. You have heard him say it. He has killed my father and now you will let him kill me.
He will do no such thing. Tom, you know the crossing at Cypress Forks, near the log meetinghouse? When you are mounted you will take the girl there and leave her. Do you understand that, Tom? If any harm comes to this child you do not get paid.
Harold, let me ride up with you.
Baaaaa! Baaaaa!
Farrel, I will pay you fifty dollars out of my winnings! I am not heavy!
Ha ha! Do the calf again, Harold!
Everything is against me.
You have no reason to whine. If you act as the bandit chief instructed, and no harm comes to me, you will get your winnings at The Old Place.
They will not wait for me at The Old Place. Lucky Ned has left me, knowing I am sure to be caught when I leave on foot.
He is sending a mount.
That was a story. Keep still now. I must think over my position and how I may improve it.
Where is the second California gold piece?
What have you done with Papa's mare?
Keep still, you little busybody. More brooding silence.
Are you thinking about The Old Place? If you will let me go, I will swear to it in an affidavit and once you are brought to justice it may go easier on you.
I tell you I can do better than that. I do not intend to be caught. I need no affidavit.
Sho that ish Chelmthford. Shtrange to be sho closhe at lasht.
How is it you are here?
I heard the shotsh and went down to the river. . .
A plan?
He returnzh for Lucky Ned.
One against four. It is ill advised.
He would not be dishuaded.
Well, Rooster, will you give us the road?
Moo! Moo!
Hello, Ned. How many men are with the girl?
Just Chaney. Our agreement is in force: she was in excellent health when last I saw her.
Farrel, I want you and your brother to stand clear. You as well, Doctor. I have no interest in you today.
What is your intention, Rooster? Do you think one on four is a dogfall?
I mean to kill you in one minute, Ned. Or see you hanged in Fort Smith at Judge Parker's convenience. Which will you have?
I call that bold talk for a one-eyed fat man!
Koo koo roo! Blawk!
Fill your hand, you son of a bitch!
Shoot them, Mr. LeBoeuf!
Too far, moving too fasht.
Well Rooster, I am shot to pieces. It seems neither of us is to see Judge Parker.
Oh lord.
Some bully shot! Four hundred yards, at least!
I am afraid I have--
Stand up, Tom Chaney!
Mr. LeBoeuf! Are you alive!
Mr. LeBoeuf!
Are you there?
I am here!
Can you clamber out?
I cannot!
Awake?
Yes! Rooster appears in the mouth of the pit. He has a rope wrapped round his waist and he starts to descend, half walking, half hopping against the pit wall.
Ahh!
What is that?
I am bit!
Does Mr. LeBoeuf survive?
He does--even a blow to the head could silence him for only a few short minutes. Where are you bit?
My foot is pinned and leg broken.
I have her! Up with us!
I will send help for you as soon as I can. Don't wander off.
We are not leaving him!
I must get you to a doctor, sis, or you are not going to make it.  The girl is snakebit. We are off.
Never doubt the Texash Ranger.
Come on, you!
We must stop. Little Blackie is played out.
We have miles yet.
No!
He is getting away.
Who is getting away?
Chaney.
Hold on, sis.
Put your arms around my neck, I will carry.
Where are we?
I have grown old.
A quarter of a century is a long time.
I had written a letter of thanks to Marshal Cogburn, with an invitation to visit, along with the fifty dollars I owed him. In his reply he promised he would try to call next time he came to Fort Smith with prisoners. Brief though his note was, it was rife with misspellings.
Boy.
Little Frank had sent me the flier. He had chaffed me through the years over the fact that I had not married, calling the marshal my "secret sweetheart," and he sent a note with the advertisement: "Skill and dash--it's not too late, Mattie!" Little Frank and Victoria have always liked jokes and they are all right in their place. I have never held it against either one of them for leaving me at home to look after Mama, and they know it, for I have told them.
Yes'm, I am Cole Younger. This is Mr. James. It grieves me to tell you that you have missed Rooster. He passed away, what, three days ago, when the show was in Jonesboro Arkansas. Buried him there in the confederate cemetery. Reuben had a complaint what he referred to as "night hoss" and I believe the warm weather was too much for him. We had some lively times. What was the nature of your acquaintance?
I knew the marshal long ago. We too had lively times. Thank you, Mr. Younger.
Yell County Hold at station
I had the marshal's body removed to Dardanelle. The railroads do not like to carry disinterred bodies in the summertime, but I had my way.
. . . It's just like a cranky old maid to pull a stunt like that, burying him in the family plot. They say I love nothing but money and the Presbyterian Church and that is why I never married. It is true that I love my church and my bank. I will tell you a secret. Those same people talk mighty nice when they come in for a crop loan or a mortgage extension. I care nothing for what they say. I would have married a baboon if I had wanted and fetched it its newspaper and slippers every morning but I never had time to fool with it.
1835-1908 A Resolute Officer Of Parker's Court
Anyway, a woman with brains and a frank tongue and one sleeve pinned up and an invalid mother to care for is not widely sought after. I never did see Mr. LeBoeuf again but if he is yet alive I would be pleased to hear from him. I judge he would be in his seventies now and nearer eighty than seventy. I expect some of the starch has gone out of that cowlick. Time just gets away from us.
