Shit!
 Truman!  Truman!  Stop!
Come down now!
 No!
 Why?  What's there?
 Nothing's there.  It's the same as this.  Come down, please!
I told you to stay close.  Don't ever leave my sight again.  You gotta know your limitations.  You could've been washed away by the tide.
 Gimme a copy of "The Sydney Morning Herald".
We ran out.
 Thanks anyway.
I wanna be a chiropractor like my dad.
 Tell the class what a chiropractor does, Douglas.
He helps people by fixing their backs, Sister Olivia.
That's right, Douglas.  Perhaps I'll be your first patient.
What about you, Truman?
I want to be an explorer  ...like Magellan.
No one's going to pay you to do that, Truman.  Besides, you're too late.  There's nothing left to explore.
 ...okay, okay, let's call it what it is... I'm not gonna lie to you...life insurance is death insurance...you just gotta ask yourself two questions...one, in the event of your death, will anyone experience financial loss?...and two, do you care?
 Hold on will ya? (to Clerk, putting receiver to chest, referring to the book) This's no good.  Lumps all drownings together.  I need drownings broken down by category.
 ...just think about what I've been saying and lemme...hello?...
 Can you connect me with directory inquiries in Sydney, Australia? (a long delay makes Truman even more uncomfortable) ...er, yes.  Do you have a listing for a Lauren Powers...  ...nothing listed?...what about a Sylvia Powers...nothing?  Thanks...
 How's it goin', Truman?
 Not bad.  I just won the State Lottery.
 Good.  Good.
Tyrone, what if I said I didn't want meatball today?
 I'd ask for identification.
 He's right there.  You're supposed to pay when he's here.
 He never notices.
Hold on, Truman.  I got somethin' to show ya.
 The flagship of Christoforo...our Genoese navigator, huh?  I know you love this like me.
 Not me.  You got the wrong man.
See ya tomorrow, Truman.
 You ever pass a car wreck on the side of the road?  They're pulling out a body.  You know you shouldn't look, but you do.
Hello?...I'm sorry, I got more than enough insurance.
 ...this isn't about insurance, this is about the great variable - when will death occur?  Could be a week, a month, a year.  Could happen today...A sunbather, minding his own business, gets stabbed in the heart by the tip of a runaway beach umbrella...No way you can guard against that kinda thing, no way at all...
 Hey, Burbank, I got a bridge-buyer in Stapleton I need you to cloes by four.
Stapleton on Staten Island?
 You know another one?
I can't do it.
 A half hour across the bay.  Sea air.  Do you good.
No, I...  ...I got an appointment uptown.
This is a sure thing.  They're upping our quota.  You need this.
 Let's go further, daddy!  Let's go further!
 It's getting late, Truman.
 Please!...
 I can't believe he's taking the long way.
He'll never make it.
I'm here to see a Mr Hamilton.
You from the insurance company?  You missed him.
When will he be back?
Vacation.  Two months.  He waited as long as he could.  You was supposed to be here by four.
 You wanna read to me?
 You wannna read to me?
 My friend asked you a question.
 Please...
Now you're gonna have to ask me how it ends.
We're gonna tell you how it ends, baby.
Don't you wanna know how it ends?
 Help!!  Please, help!!
Thanks.
 He did nothing.
 Physical violence paralyzes him.  Always has.
 I got it free with the tune-up.
You missed a section.
 Do they hurt?
I was afraid I'd seize up during cross. One of the keys kept sticking.
 Is he gonna take the stand?
 No point.  Two eye witnesses saw him near the dumpster where they found the legs.
You gonna eat before you leave?
I'll get something out.
 Did something happen today?
 What could happen?
Ouch.  Whose nuts were those?
 Mine.
I gotta get out, Marlon.
 Yeah?  Outta what?
Outta my job, outta Queens...out!
Outta your job?  What the hell's wrong with your job?  You gotta great job. You gotta desk job.  I'd kill for a desk job.
 Sonofabitch.
It doesn't mean anything.
 Nothing means anything.  Try stocking vending machines for a living.  My biggest decision of the day is whether the Almond Joys look better next to the Snickers or the Baby Ruths.
 I gotta get out.
 Sure and go where?
 Australia.
 No shit.  Where is Australia exactly? Near England?
See here, this is Queens. (sliding his finger around the other side of the ball) All the way round here, Australia.  You can't get any further away before you start coming back. (tossing the world in his hand, warming to his subject) Y'know, there're still places in Australia where no human being has ever set foot.
 So when are you leaving?
It's not that simple.  Takes money, planning. You can't just up and go.  Oh, I'm gonna do it, don't worry about that.  I just gotta move slow.  Pick a moment.  Bonus time's just around the corner.  Soon as I get a retaining wall built on the back of the house I can start thinking about selling up...and I'll be gone.  Up and away on that big steel bird.  I'm going, don't you worry about that.
I never knew anybody who got out.
 Tick-fucking-tock.  That's the fucking problem, Marlon.  I'm thirty-four.  I'm older than Jesus Christ.
Where do the dreams go, Marlon?
 You win.
I'm serious.  Where do the dreams go?
 They're still there.  Just buried under what we settled for.
 You really think it could've dropped off an airliner?
 Sure.  It's halogen.  You oughta report it.  You coming for a drink?
I can't tonight.
 I'm sorry!  I'm sorry!
 What are you doing?  Come to bed.
 I figure we could scrape together eight thousand.
 Oh.  God, everytime you and Marlon--
--We could bum around the world for a year on that.
And then what, Truman?  We'd be back to where we were five years ago.  You're talking like a teenager.
Maybe I feel like a teenager.
Meryl, it'd be an adventure.
We said we'd try for a baby.  Isn't that enough of an adventure?
That can wait.  I want to get away.  See some of the world.  Explore.
You want to be an explorer?  You mean like all the other great explorers from Queens? You don't even have a passport, Truman.  I bet you don't even know how to get one.
This'll pass.  Everybody thinks like this now and then. (making one more attempt at seduction) Come to bed.
How can they have a child?
It's not gonna be his, you idiot.
Why not?
You think she'd go through with it?  Guess I always thought they'd adopt.
 Daddy!!...Daddy!!...
 Daddy...
 Hey, stop!  Stop!!
 Hey!
 Two, four, oh, six.
 Outta the way!  Outta the way!
What the fuck are you trying to pull?!
 I'm sorry!  I'm sorry!  No harm done! No harm done!
 I oughta fuck you up!
Get the fuck outta here.
What're you doing?  The man told you there's no such bus.
He's lying.  Two, four, oh, six was definitely the number.
I never believed he was dead.
 C'mon, Truman, a lotta times they don't find a body.  You know what the currents are like in that water.
 You had to see his face when that wave hit. He wasn't scared Marion.  It was like he was expecting it, waiting for it.  He knew it was coming.
Why would he fake it?  He's not Elvis Presley.
 You know what was really strange about today? An old woman with a little dog and a businessman, walking in opposite directions on the sidewalk, both react like clockwork. They force him onto a bus against his will, a bus that doesn't normally stop outside my building.  And when I'm giving chase, the bus never makes another stop and I get the feeling that the traffic and the pedestrians are working together to make sure I never catch up with it.
 Oh, so now it's also the pedestrians and the buses and the cars?  What are you saying, the entire population of Lower Manhattan is conspiring to stop you finding out that your father staged his death to pursue a life as a street person?  Oh yeah, that makes sense.
You think I imagined it, don't you?
I think you're missing your dad.  The anniversary was yesterday, wasn't it?
You got sand in your cuffs.
Maybe you're right.  If only the old woman hadn't left her dog behind.
Don't you dare go in. Truman.  I just got her off to sleep.
It was Dad. I swear.
Well, the next time he shows up. bring him over.  Until then, I'm not saying a word about this to Mom and neither are you.
If it wasn't him, it was his twin.  Can you think of a reason he'd want to hide from us?
I know a reason he'd want to hide from you. Look at how you treat us.  You live ten minutes away, we hardly see you from year to year and then you turn up with this story so insane you don't even believe it yourself.  Haven't you hurt her enough, Truman?  She already blames you.
 I was seven years old!
But you're here and he's not.  Has it really taken you this long to invent a story to ease your conscience?
I'm telling you he's alive!
 And I'm telling you he's fish food!
You did well.
We've tightened security.
 Why would he do this to us?
Old age.  Sentiment.  You play someone's father all those years, you are someone's father...He sees the way Truman is.  He feels responsible.
 ...as soon as we give the cue, tack to windward...
The freak wave will strike from the starboard side.  Remember, you don't go to the diver.  The diver goes to you.
...Good!  Good!...of course, on the day you only surface once you're safely beyond the cove...Try it one more time...You okay?
What're you doing out here?
 Fixing the mower.
 Your sister called.  She was worried about you.
 I saw my father on State Street dressed as a homeless man.
 I kept seeing my brother for years after he died.
 What do you want?
I made macaroni.
I gotta go out.  About a replacement...  ...mower blade.
...west on Atlantic...he's making a right on Woodhaven...
...God, Truman almost hit Marilyn!...he's on the move again, passing the Burger King...
 ...something's wrong.  Change frequencies...
Hey, Truman!  Where you bin?  You bin cheatin' on me?
 God, do they still make this stuff? What's the Sell-By Date?
 ...you see him messing with the antenna...what did you think would happen?..."lapse of concentration", is that what you call it? I call it amateur-hour...  In case you hadn't noticed, we don't get to do it over.
 You think this is funny?
The mask has slipped before.  Everything can be explained.
 What's dangerous is that he makes the connection between what happened today and the girl.
Like I say, I don't normally do this. I gotta charge extra.
He's re-created the event on and off for a number of years.  We've never understood what prompts him to indulge the fantasy, or for that matter what inspired such a painfully shy boy to approach her in the first place...
We'd noticed them making eyes at each other for some weeks but never thought he'd say anything.  She was a year older, wrote poetry, way out of his league...
 Hi.
 See you in class.
Lauren, right?
No.
 Look.  I was wonder--
--I can't go out with you.
I haven't asked you yet.
Well when you do, that's my answer.  I'm sorry.  It's not up to me.
 Why, you married?
I'm not asking you to have my children, just a pizza.  How about Saturday?
 No.
Friday?
Now.
Right now?  We got finals.
If we don't go now, it won't happen.
 Well, what do you want to do?
We knew we were taking a risk.  She hadn't been properly coached, but we were torn... He'd summoned the courage to make the approach...We wanted to reward that.  Of course she took full advantage...
I never knew this place existed.
Come on!  Come on!  It's wonderful!
 I...I can't.
That's right.  Oh, God, I'm sorry.
 Why? You've got nothing to be sorry about. Has someone been talking to you?
 Get me out of here.  I don't want to be here.
 What are you talking about?  Lauren!  Lauren!
 My name's not Lauren!  It's Sylvia!
In a minute someone's going to come and stop me talking to you.
 Who?  There's no one around.
 You remember when you were a little boy, you stood up in class and said you wanted to be an explorer like Magellan.  And your teacher, Sister Olivia said, "You're too late, Truman.  There's nothing left to explore."  And all the other kids laughed. And you sat down.
 How do you know about that?
It doesn't matter.  You've forgotten about that boy, Truman.  You got scared.  Just because something happens, doesn't mean you can't take another chance in your life.
I don't understand.
 There isn't much time.  Just listen. Everybody's pretending Truman.  Everybody but you. (pointing to the buildings on the horizon) Look at that project.  You think anybody lives there?  It's all for you, Truman. A show.  The eyes are everywhere.
 Eyes?  Where?
 Everywhere, disguised...Truman, they're going to fill your head with lies. You've got to make yourself deaf, you understand?  When you're afraid the most, it means you're on the right track.  Trust that boy.  Promise me you'll do that?
 I told you, Truman!
 Hey!
 Get in the car, Lauren!
 Who are you?!
I'm her father!
No he's not!  He's just saying that! Does he look anything like me?!
Shut your mouth!
Leave her alone!
 I told you not to come here anymore! (to Truman, who is getting to his feet) Which one are you?
 Don't listen to him, Truman.  Make yourself deaf.  Come find me.
 Don't bother!  We're moving to Australia. New York's done something to her head.
Why did he say Australia?  Why couldn't he have said New Jersey?
You want me to do it again?  I think I could do it better.
 No...thank you.
Veronica, what do you know for sure?
For sure? (taking a long drag on her cigarette as she gives the question due consideration) The nuns at my school, they used to say, "The whole of life is faith."
 On the house.
We removed all physical trace of her but we couldn't erase the memory...
When he decided to go after Sylvia, we were forced to intervene once again...
 I've got something to tell you, Sis.
 I've got something to tell you too.
 I'm going to Australia.
Mom's real sick.
She was willing to lose him if it meant he could find himself.  Never mind.
 I have an appointment at, er...Diamond Enterprises.
 What're they doing?
 Just tell me what the hell's going on?
Like fuck!  What're they doing?
You don't tell me, I'll get you investigated!
You can't--
 --I know.
You ever been into the AMT Building?
 Not since they begun reconstruction. (referring to the file in Truman's hands) What're you doing with that?
 I'm going to visit a site.
What for?
Because I never do.
 That's why we got adjusters.
 You got a problem with me going?
I got a problem with you not doing your job, Burbank.  You already screwed up once this week.
Let me worry about that.
680 West 89th.
Hey, would it kill ya to wait?!
 Is there another way?  Can't you get around this?
 When was the fire?
 Week ago.
How come it's still smoking?
Started up again.  Kids.
 Says here it burnt to the ground.
Wishful thinking maybe?
Someone send you to tell me all this?
 You the one askin' questions.
...Everybody stay focused...remember who you are...
 Damn!
 Small world.
 Excuse me.
You don't remember?  Two days ago I gave you my meatball sandwich in the park.  You were in a wheelchair.  Same sneakers.
 A miracle!
 Get the hell outta here.
Marlon. I've gotta talk to you.
 Truman!  Sorry, I'm up against it today.
I've fallen over something, Marlon. Something to do with my Dad. I think.
 Are you okay? You look like shit.
 It's big, Marlon.  You wouldn't believe who's in on it.
 In on what?
There's no point trying to show you, they cover their tracks too well.  But I've been going into a lotta strange buildings, seeing a lotta familiar faces, y'know what I mean?
 Something's definitely in the air.  My last delivery, a kid got crushed to death. tilting a vending machine.  They won't even let me take the rest of the day off.
Do it, anyway.
I'm deadly serious. Marlon.  We can't talk here.  I'm being followed.
 Who?
I don't know.  They look just like regular people. (producing a notebook from his jacket pocket) But I've been writing down numbers - license plates, taxi numbers, ID numbers - the same ones keep cropping up over and over.
Is someone leanin' on you, Tru?  Cos I got some friends here, they owe me.  We can lean back. (pointing out a taxi parked outside the yard) Is he one of them?
 I don't know.  Could be.  One thing's certain. The key is spontoneity.  Be unpredictable. They can't stand that.  That's why we've got to get outta here.  Can you come with me?
 Christ, Truman.  You're gonna get both our asses fired.
Where're we going?
The beach.
 I can't believe how much he's shoved down.  That he sensed the significance at aged seven and clung to it so fiercely.
 You remember, Moses, it used to end right there, before the expansion.
 Christof, the cracks are starting to show.
 I'll paper over them.
 Truman's had bouts of paranoia before and recovered.
 No, not like this.  It's compromised. Becoming unwatchable.
Fear?  Doubt?  Is that what you have trouble watching?  Perhaps you don't like watching yourself.
 Why don't you two wait outside?
 He's jumped the rails, Moses, that's all.  We'll get him back on.
You know why they're so nervous.  The birth of Truman's child is going to double revenue. For God's sake don't let him upstage you. (indicating Simeon through the glass walls) You've been grooming a successor.
He's not ready.
Him or you?
 You can't pull him back in without me.  He's just acting out of character.
What if he's in character?  What if he's starting to act in character at last?  Have you ever considered that?
What're we doing here, Truman?
This is where it started.
Where what started?
Things.  Things that don't fit.  Loose threads. False steps.  Slips of the tongue.
 Make sense, Truman.  You going religious on me?
 My father didn't want me to see what was over here. Whatever it was, it's gone now.  I never shoulda listened to him that day.  I knew it was wrong.
There were a hundred people on the beach that day.  Everybody knew what was going on except me.
I don't want to put you down but why would anybody go to all this trouble over you?
Maybe I've been mistaken for somebody else.  A couple of years ago, I tried to get hold of a copy of Time Magazine.  The week before an ad said, "Next Week:  Truman Burbank and the Lost Generation".
A guy with the same name as me in Time Magazine.  It ain't a common name so I looked out for it.  But the day it came out, every newstand was sold out.  No library had it.  I even wrote off for a back-issue.  Never seen a copy to this day.
Maybe I'm being set up for something.  You ever feel like that, Marlon?  Like your whole life has been building to something?
 A coincidence.  Haven't you ever heard of a coincidence?
I'm a walking coincidence.  I can't count 'em. No something's happening, Marlon.  I've got to get to the bottom of it.
 Of what?!  Why're you doing this to yourself?
I'm scared, Marlon.  I'm as scared as hell. But I've never felt more alive.  It's just like she said.
 Who?
It doesn't matter.  She was too beautiful for here.
Can you lend me some money?  A hundred bucks.
All I got on me is the takings from the machines. Why do you need it?
I'm going away for a while.
 What's going on, Truman?  You're not yourself.
 Maybe you just don't know me very well.
We could do it right here, like we used to.
 Travelling Down Under?  Global Travel is turning rates to Australia upside down.  Round Trip to Sydney only $829.  One way, $465. Global Travel at Broadway and 44th...
 Lemme go to the bathroom.
Don't be too long.
What happened overnight?
He couldn't do it, even on the sofa.
 God, that thing of his must be psychic.  He didn't masturbate?
Not for the last two inonths.
 Aren't you gonna be late?
I got a call in the area.  What's the case?  Anything interesting?
 Rape on the subway.
They're guilty as hell but they'll walk.  No witnesses.  Her word against theirs.  Maybe we could meet for lunch today.
You a witness?
Er, yes...  No, no I'm not.
Closed session.
I wanna book a flight to Australia.
Where exactly?
 Australia.
 Where in Australia?  What city?
Sorry, Sydney.  Sydney, Australia.  That's right.
 For how many?
 One.
When do you want to leave, remembering, of course, that you do lose a day on the way there?
 Today.
 I'm sorry.  I don't have anything for a week.
 A week.
 It's the busy season.
 You sure you're not trying to keep me here? You are a travel agent, aren't you?  Your job is to help people travel, not keep 'em where they are. (pointing to the agent's name tag, "DORIS - Travel Agent") Or maybe you're a different kind of agent, Doris?
 I do have a fabulous rate on a cruise ship departing for Australia tomorrow.  But you wouldn't want to do that.
Why wouldn't I?
I thought you were in a hurry.
 That's right.
You want to book the flight?
You were expecting me, weren't you?
It's non-refundable.
 Happy?
 Can we contain him long enough?
I think so.
 He flies at night.  Thick cloud cover to disorient him.  Hopefully we'll knock him out with complimentary cocktails, pull the shades down during the movies.  He'll never know.
 Why go to all the trouble?
He believes she has the answer.
Why not just tell him she's dead?
It's too late for that.  That won't satisfy him.  He's going to have to find out for himself. See it with his own eyes.  Right now he needs something genuine. (rueful, all too aware of the contradiction) Even if we have to fake it.
 "Yours truly..."  You spell "truly" "l...y" or "e...l...y"?
I always write "Yours faithfully..."
Where the hell have you been, Burbank? What the hell's going on?
That's what I'd like to know, Lawrence.
I was just about to resign.  Isn't that a laugh?  I just realized there's nothing to resign from, is there?
Listen, don't bother with the resignation. Just get the fuck outta here.
 Why're you all pretending?  Huh?  What is this a front for?  Why aren't I in on the joke?  Was I away that day?!
 I'm talking to you!  Who am I?!
 You better get outta here or I'm calling Security.
 "Security!  I'm calling Security".
You don't believe a single word you're saying!  None of you do! (suddenly talking to a sprinkler head in the ceiling) You hear me?!
 ...and back to the close-up...
 Do you think he sees the entry?
Hard to tell.
 Why don't we ask him?
 I don't know how it got there!  Enhance.
 Say my name or I'll smash its head open.
 Say my name!
 Please, give him to me...
 Say my name!  You know my name!  Say it!
 I don't know you.
 I mean it!  I'm ready to do it! What's my name?!!
 This is your last chance!
 What...is...my...name?!
 Thank you, Truman.
 See that car way down there?  I bet it's a Suburu station wagon.
I predict the next four cars will be a white Honda Civic, a blue and white Dodge Dart with the front hubcap missing, a Volkswagon Beetle with a dented fender and a motorcycle.
There's the Honda...the Dodge...here comes the dented Beetle...
Look, damn you!
 Where's the motorcycle?
 Don't you want to know how I did that? Maybe you already know.  Is that it?
Where have you been?  I've been calling you all day.
Have you been concerned, Meryl?  Nice name. "Meryl".  I always liked it.
 Nice of you to say so after eight years.
Actress's name, isn't it?  What's your real name?
 Oh, God.  What's got into you?
Take a break. Meryl  I know.
I invited Marlon and Rita for a barbeque Sunday. I thought I'd make my potato salad.  Remind me...
 Drop it, I said.  It's over.
 ...we need more charcoal.
Shut up!
I'm gonna take a shower.
 No.  We're going for a drive.
What?!
 For years I've been saying I want to go some place, well now I'm ready to go.  Let's just jump in the car and go.
 I thought maybe, Atlantic City.
 You hate gambling.
That's right.  I do, don't I?
So why do you wanna go?
Cos I never have.  That's why you go places, isn't it?  Cos you're curious.  I haven't been curious since I was seven years old, y'know that?  Back then you'd have to nail me to the floor to keep me in one place.
How long to take Atlantic City out of mothballs?
We could be up and running...three hours maybe.
Give me a number five gridlock on the Jersey Turnpike.
 So much traffic, this time of day.  Does that strike you as peculiar?
 Why don't you slug him, really make it authentic?
 Blocked at every turn.  Beautifully synchronized, don't you agree?
 You blaming me for the traffic?
Should I?
You've never been on this road before. You don't know what it's like.
 That's true.  We could be stuck here for hours.  Could be like this all the way to Atlantic City.
What the hell are you doing?
You're right.  Let's go back.  I'm sorry.  I don't know what got into me.
Would you please slow down, Truman?
Truman, that was the turnoff!
I've changed my mind again.  What's Maine like this time of year?! I've never been to Maine. (Truman looks up through the windshield at a helicopter tracking his progress) Or let's just see where the road takes us.
 Let me out, Truman.  You're not right in the head. You wanna destroy yourself, you do it on your own!
 I think I'd like a little company.
 What the hell is wrong with the "carousel"? Keep them together.
 They're rusty.  We can't keep up.  We don't know where he's going any more.
Oncoming is very thin.
 Look down there, Meryl!...No cars!  I don't run into traffic.  The traffic follows me around.  We're in a moving pack, don't you see?
 He's so close!  It's tantilizing!
You want to pull him over?
No police.  Not yet.  We shadow him. We don't want him to panic.
He's trying to outrun the traffic.
He's trying to outrun the world.  Keep him on this route. (to Simeon who is consulting someone on his headset) Are we ready?
 It's hard to go places, isn't it?
There's been an accident, Truman.  We have to go back.
No.  There's no accident.  It'S just more stalling.
What's going on?
 Leak at the plant.  They had to shut her down.
Is there any way around?
The whole area's being evacuated.  A precaution.
Truman!!  Come back!!
Did he see it?
I don't think so.
Let me get you some help, Truman.  You're not well.
 Why do you want to have a child with me? You can't stand me.
That's not true.
 Don't lie to me!
Tell me what's happening?!
 I thought you knew everything.  What could I tell you?
 You're part of this, aren't you?!
Truman, you're scaring me!
No, you're scaring me, Meryl!
Stop this now or I kill your leading lady.  I know you can hear me.
 Get somebody in there!
 No.
 She's in trouble!  We've got to help her!
He's bluffing.  Call his bluff.
 Do something...
 Who are you talking to?!
 You're the one talking to the walls!
No.  You said, "Do something."  Who were you talking to?  I swear I'll kill you, if you don't tell me.
 How could you buy this damn thing when you know he drowned in front of me?!
You have any idea what it's like to drown?
 Truman, stop it!  Don't let him do it!
 I'll kill her!
 Right on time.  Cops must be telepathic.
 Damn!
 Stay where you are or I'll kill her!
Truman?  It's me, Marlon.
 They were going to let him kill me!
People know who I am, my every move, complete strangers know my name.  Even when there's no one around, I feel the eyes on me.
 I was in the bank today.  The Federal on Lewis.  A clerk was talking about somebody named Truman messing with her baby.  Is that the stranger you're talking about?
 No.  No.  I've never seen her before.  I know you already think I'm going out of my mind but I genuinely believe the world revolves around me somehow.  Everybody seems to be in on it.
It's a lot of world for one man.  You sure that's not wishful thinking, you wishing you'd made something more of yourself?  Christ, Truman, who hasn't sat on the John and had an imaginary interview with Barbara Walters? Who hasn't wanted to be somebody?
That's just it.  I think I am somebody.
 I used to dream all my friends and family got together in a hotel room, thinking of ways to fuck me up.
Sometimes I think it's in my head, sometimes I think it's for real.
Tru, we've known each other since before we could get a hard-on.
The only way we ever made it through high school was cheating off each other's test papers.  Jesus, they were identical. I always liked that, because whatever the answer was, we was right together and we was wrong together.
The only night either of us ever spent in jail, we spent together and I wet myself but you never told anyone. I was best man at your wedding and my brother was best man at my wedding and you didn't talk to me for a month over that and I didn't blame you because you've been more of a brother to me than he's ever been.  And I never shoulda let my Goddam father talk me into that.
I know things haven't worked out for either of us like we used to sit up on Freemont Street all night and dream they would.  We all let opportunities pass us by, none of us asks for the dance as often as we should.  I know that feeling when it's like everything's slipping away and you don't want to believe it so you look for answers someplace else.  But, well, the point is, I would gladly step in front of traffic for you.
 ...and the last thing I'd ever do is lie to you...
 And the last thing I'd ever do is lie to you.  Think about it, Truman, if everybody's in on it, I'd have to be in on it too. I'm not in on it cos there is no it.
 I can't thank you enough.  I don't know what happened.  He was so close.  It threw me.  I'm indebted.
You are watching "Truman - Total Record Of A Human Life".  Everything that occurs here is real.  There are no re-creations or interruptions.  Due to the live and unedited nature of the program, viewer discretion is advised.
 Welcome to week seventeen hundred and sixty eight of "Truman" and there can scarcely have been a more momentous week in the show's history.  I'm your host, Michael Conners, and this is a special edition of "Tru Talk", the forum where we discuss and analyze recent events with the show's award-winning creator and producer, Christof. (referring to the image of Truman in the background) I remind viewers that as this is a living history, it is our practise to keep the image of Truman on screen at all times.  Welcome.
Thank you.
Before we start taking calls, the huge surge in ratings over the last few days, how do you hope to sustain that audience now that Truman appears to have reconciled himself, returned to "normal"?
Ratings have never been our primary goal.  I imagine we'll lose those voycurs only interested in witnessing Truman's latest torment.  However I'm certain our core audience will remain loyal.
But recent events have been so dramatic, it does raise the perennial question.  What keeps us watching one man twenty-four hours a day - eating, sleeping, working, sitting for hours in contemplation?
It has to be the reality.
We've become increasingly frustrated watching actors give us phony emotions, bored with pyrotechnics and special effects.  While the world he inhabits is counterfeit, there's nothing fake about Truman himself.  No scripts. no cue cards.  It's not always Shakespeare but it's genuine.  That's how he can support an entire channel.
A window onto the human condition?
I prefer to think of it as a mirror.  Not only does he give us a glimpse of the truth, he gives us a glimpse of ourselves.
But how do you account for the popularity of those eight hours a day when Truman sleeps?
We find many viewers leave him on all night for comfort.  Haven't you ever watched your child or your lover sleep?
Let's go to some of those viewers' calls.
 Charlotte, North Carolina, for Christof.
You're on, caller.  Go ahead.
Thank you.
I don't believe so.  Not now.  He tested his world, as we all do at certain times, and eventually it passed the test.  You have to understand, he is a man made-for-TV, the world he occupies his only frame of reference. No, for him to come even this close to the truth is a remarkable testament to his instincts.
Sacramento, California, you're on "Tru Talk".
Working on "Truman" has always been a huge commitment for an actor, not just in terms of separation from friends and family, but since Truman essentially drives the plot, it's a never-ending improvisation.  Recent events have raised the pressure but also the prestige.
 Of course Truman has always been very much in on casting.
As with our own lives, the only people he can't cast are his family.  Otherwise he has final approval, able to elevate an extra into a lead role as was the case with his only real friend, Marlon, or alternatively relegate a star to a bit player.
 Istanbul, Turkey, you're on with world-renowned videographer, Christof.
Who can?
 In his entire life, forty-two minutes.  A technical fault in 1978 accounts for most of that time.  The remainder generally results from blindspots, in the early days, when Truman would stray out of range of our cameras.
The Hague for Christof...The Hague?...lost them.  Amagansett, Long Island, you're on "Tru Talk".
 I believe that to be so.  I often feel the only difference between Truman's life and our own is that his is being more thoroughly documented. We all play our allotted roles--
 --He can leave at any time.  If his was more than just a vague ambition, if he were absolutely determined to discover the truth, there's no way we could prevent him.  I think what really distresses you, caller, is that ultimately he prefers the comfort of his "cell"--
 Do I know you, caller?  Your voice sounds familiar.
 Recording a human life from birth to death, that's still the intention?  You still believe Truman has more to contribute?
 More than ever.  By unwittingly allowing us to witness his struggles, he's constantly forcing us to evaluate our own lives.  He gives us hope.
Let's take another call.  London, England you're on "Tru Talk".
What are you looking for?
 He was premature, wasn't he?
Only by two weeks.
Curious even then?  Like he couldn't wait to get started?
 His eagerness to leave his mother's womb also meant he was the one selected.
What was it like, the first show?
The ultimate live television.  In competition with five other unwanted pregnancies - the casting of a show determined by an air date - he was the one who arrived on cue.
Is it true what you said...on the show tonight? About letting him go if he wanted it badly enough.  Would you really do that?
It won't come to that.
I hope we've got fresh extras.
 The rotation was made this morning.
 I don't like the couple with the baby. They'd never be together.
Who's doing wardrobe?  I keep seeing the same wardrobe...
...everybody back to One...
...and, action background...
...nice...nice...I like the woman with the dog... let's keep it moving...I want that traffic kept together...everybody look like you've got places to go...
I bet he doesn't stop at the newstand.
...Bodycam Two...
...streetlight eight...
...ready, Car-Cam One.  Go to One...
...and cut to interior...
...looser...
...and action, Vivien...  Looks just like Truman's mother at that age.
 Damn, she missed her mark!  Why do we bother with walk-throughs if nobody pays attention?  Give me a two-shot of Truman and Vivien...go to the master ...hold the elevators...  Vivien, press the elevator button again ...and make sure you catch his eye this time...
Good!  Perfect!  Cut to the interior...
...and Lawrence...
...nice look, Lawrence...and, Vivien...
 I wouldn't kick her out of bed.
 Regrettably, I have to inform you that Hannah has chosen not to renew her contract.
I'm sure we can all respect her reasons.
Her separation from Truman will be orchestrated over the summer.  However, I'm pleased to announce that television's first on-air conception will still take place.  You witnessed the initial contact this morning. (glancing to Vivien, once again using her real name) You all know Claudia from her work in theatre. Thankfully, Truman doesn't.
 This is a copy of Claudia's back story. Her character's name will be Vivien. She's the new adjuster at the office.
We intend to entice Truman into the affair as soon as possible.  Claudia will make her advance at the seminar Truman's attending next week.  Details are in your schedules.  I'm sure you'll all make Claudia welcome.
 Question is, will Truman make her welcome?
 I don't have to tell you, how critical the next few weeks will be.  This takes us into the next generation.  When Truman's child is born, the network will be switching to a two-channel format to chronicle both lives.
What happens when Truman and the baby are both on camera together?
There will simply be duplicate coverage.
 Let's just hope we don't have twins.
 When Truman dies do we go back to the single channel?
What's he doing in there?
Meryl's at her mom's.  Maybe he's got an urge.
 What's with the coat?
 Maybe he doesn't wanna be recognized.
 Nervous.
 Oh God, he never bought nothing.
Give him a break.  It's taken him thirty- four years to get the nerve to go in there.
...Ready two.  Go to two.
And back to the medium.
...and wide...
 Could we have picked a bigger loser if we tried?
 That loser pays our salary.
He's given up on himself again.
Who cares?  Makes life easier for us. He is what he is.
When did he start sleeping like that?
About the time Meryl left.
Is that the best shot we can get?
What's to see?
 What happened to the room?
He started to reorganize.  I was going to call you.  But half-way through, he gave up and fell asleep.
I want to check the set-ups for tomorrow's insurance convention.
Give me a shot from his wedding band.
 He took it off.
 Why is he so still?  He's too still.
Isolate the audio in the cans and amplify.
Give me a preview.  An ECU on his torso.
 Phone him.
 Wrong number.
 He didn't drink tonight?  No pills?
Hang up!
Get Marlon over there.
Under what pretext?
 Any fucking pretext!
Tru!..Tru!..
 I'm comin' in, Tru!
 Cut transmission.
 I said, "Cut"!
There.  Freeze...Zoom into the chair...
Enhance.
 He wasn't making a mess.  He was engineering a blind spot.
How does he know where the cameras are?
I don't know. (noting the time-code on the monitor, staring into the back of Simeon's head) All I know is we've been filming a blow-up doll for the last three hours.
 We've declared a curfew.  Only the extras required for the search are on the set. Everyone else is at first positions.
All prop cars accounted for?
He has to be on foot.  He has the world's most recognizable face.  He can't disappear.
The sponsors are threatening to pull the plug if we don't make a statement within the next hour.  The media is in a feeding frenzy.  The phone lines are jammed.  Every network has a pirated shot of Harlon and the dummy.
Any sign of him?
 Not yet.
 Take it easy.
 Rumors are circulating he's dead.
 The sponsors are threatening to rip up their contracts.
 Why?  We're getting higher ratings for that graphic than any time in the series.
 When we flush him out how do we explain this?
 We tell him the truth.
 We're making a movie.
 We'll get him on this next sweep.
What have we missed?
It's just a matter of time.
No.  We've missed something.
 You remember when you were a little boy...
...Trust that boy...
Trust that boy...  We're not watching the sea.
 Why would we?
Sweep the harbor.
That's him!
Resume transmission.
 What do we have on that boat?
 Alter course immediately.  You are entering a restricted area.
Fuck you!
Alter course or we fire on your vessel.
Get the hell away!  It's my life!
 Fire a warning.
Alter course.  Drop your sails.
 Jesus!  God!  Is he out of his mind?
 Pull back.
How long will another chopper take?
By the time we pick up the pilots, too long.
We have to stop him for his own good. Turn him back with the elements.
 There's no rescue boat in the area.  He won't know what to do.
 For God's sake, Chris.  The whole world is watching.  We can't kill him in front of a live audience.
He was born in front of a live audience. (never taking his eyes from the screen, reassuring) Don't worry, he's not willing to risk his life for the truth.  His doubts will turn him back.
Kill the lights.
 I'm coming to find you Sylvia!  I'm making myself deaf!  You're going to have to kill me!  Come on!
 It's not working.  He can sail that thing!
How can he sail?!  He's in insurance!  He hasn't set foot on a boat since he was seven!
 On the behalf of the studio, I demand you cease transmission.
 Keep running!  I take full responsibility.  How close?
Very close.
Capsize him!  Tip him over!
 You can't!  He's tied himself to the wheel. He'll drown!
 He doesn't care...
 You lied, you hypocrite!  The only way he can leave, is dead!
 Do it!
 It's too late...
Yeah!
...the soundstage roof houses over eight hundred thousand lights of varying intensities to faithfully recreate the constellations...
 Nobody move!  Drive!
 Keep talking.  Say whatever you say!
Er,...the ocean tank contains over six hundred and fifty million gallons of man-made salt water, temperature-controlled...
 Act normal!  Keep filming!
Please, Mister Truman.
 What do you mean he's not there?  We can't have lost him again.
...on your left, the control room where the angles are selected and the actors receive direction.  Of course, the one place we can't show you is the story department.  There is none.  ...Truman writes the script...
 Here he is!  It's him!
 We've got him trapped.
Truman...
 Even the stars I wished on...
 You won't do it, Truman.  I've watched you your whole life.
 You never had a camera in my head.
 Something was real!  Something had to be real!
