It's funny, the more we find ourselves slaves of chance... the more superstitious we become.
And that would make Andrew Zabel one superstitious motherfucker.
He started every day the same exact way. He would walk his dogs then leave his Gramercy Park condo at seven am on the dot.
And he would take an umbrella with him even when there was no chance of rain...
He'd buy a journal, a tin of chocolate Altoids and a cold bottle of Poland Springs water.
He had timed it out so he wouldn't have to wait more than three minutes for the uptown five train.
I guess you could say that day was like every other...
Except for one thing...
Which holds for an uncomfortably long moment, then... "Money Never Sleeps" graces the screen... and we move down below the letters to find...
Now filling the screen. It's of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. It's for the year 2008 and it's down to the right... not good. A circle marks Friday June 13th. Follow a blue line back three days and stop. Another circle is now formed and Matthew Good's "Giant" rings out... CARD: JUNE 6th 2008... 8 DAYS EARLIER...
Opening titles... the workplace throng... listening to their iPods, checking their Blackberrys and sipping their Starbucks.
Go ahead, open it. And across from Andrew Zabel sits JACOB L. MOORE... who holds his bonus check.
Really? On the wall over Zabel's shoulder runs an electronic ticker with the major indices and just one stock... ticker KZI... Keller Zabel Investments.
I thought that because of the problems with the credi--
Screw the credit derivative desk, I don't understand half the shit they do anyway. Zabel forces a smile. But Jacob can tell something's wrong with him.
Are you okay? Zabel doesn't answer... he just nods to the envelope.
Open it. He opens the envelope and looks down at the check. $1,450,000. And he can barely contain his excitement.
Thank you. And we get a good look at Jacob now... boyish features that display humility with a trace of mischievousness thrown in. He's definitely sexy, definitely cerebral and definitely winning.
I'm proud of you, Jacob. And Jacob tries to play it cool as he looks up at the electronic ticker on the wall... 12,592.46 -- +132.46... KZI
Princess cut, platinum banded, five carat, completely colorless round center stone with a medium girdle and excellent polish. Pull back to be in...
Yeah, it's nice. But here's the thing... He looks around the store for a moment, then...
I want to see the "fuck you" room.
The "fuck you" room?
Yes. The room where you sell me a fuck you ring for fuck you money.
The private client foyer. And with a big smile...
What did I say?
A promo plays for a magazine show being narrated by Cody Willard.
Tomorrow night we explore the excesses of hedge fund managers. Different pictures flash on the screen of private jets, massive mansions, expensive watches and wines.
Whether they're spraying $5000 a bottle champagne at Voile Rouge in Saint-Tropez, ordering a $10,000 Martini at The Algonquian Hotel with a diamond on the bottom or eating a gold dusted $175 hamburger at the Wall Street Burger Shoppe... Now the flashes are of some of the top HEDGE FUND MANAGERS in the business that we'll see later... one of them is a man named BRETTON WOODS... maybe we hold a little longer on him to get a good look... Mid 40s, good looking and refined.
... these cowboys of finance always seem to land on their feet. Jacob lets out a little laugh and mutes the tv. He grabs the phone and makes a call...
Jake, Glass Works is up nine points on earnings, you want to unload some?
Yeah, let's get closer to home. A trader named AUDRY turns to Jacob.
 Where's his hat? Willy glares at her.
Mind your own business, Audry.
I had to wear Pfizer on my forehead for a full week... so post it up, bitch. Willy pleads with Jacob...
C'mon Jake, it's embarrassing. Jacob just shrugs...
The stock goes down, you wear the crown... them's the rules. Audry grins in victory. Willy shakes his head, grabs a marker, scribbles something down on a post-it then places it on his forehead. It reads "I bought Toll Brothers at $24" and he has to wear it all week. And Jacob laughs... now looking up at the electronic ticker... KZI $60.21... -$2.25...
The quant stares at a HIGH CLASS CALL GIRL working the room across the way. He then turns back to the guys with...
Girl like that cost a thousand bucks last year... now it's up to five.
Getting priced out of the hooker bubble? Confirming in frustration...
Goddamn bull market's killing my sex life. They all laugh.
 It's true. I'm actually shocked KZI gave you a bonus of that size.
Why? Private Equity CFO nudges Hedge Fund PM in reference to the woman who just took the seat at the next table...
Really? The 787 is having problems. As Hedge Fund PM opens a bottle of Krug, Clos du Mesnil 1995 and pours it into the flutes.
 Why? Why are you so shocked? Offering Jacob a flute...
We're not in serious trouble. It's a rumor. A woman takes the table next to them and this makes Derivatives Trader perk up and say.
I think Goodyear Tire is definitely a buy. Hedge Fund PM checks out the woman.
Goodyear? The chart is horrible.
 Oh, it's like a code. And Private Equity CFO turns to Jacob with...
You guys were down three points in an up market today.
Whatever, somebody was adding to their short. As a supermodel now joins the next table.
 Starwood, ticker HOT. Yeah but... I'm more a buyer of... 
It's an exchange traded fund that tracks the Guinian Franc.
Gold Digger Freak Show. The guys just shake their heads...
Can I ask you something, Robby? Robby nods.
What's your number?
Huh?
You know what I mean. The amount of money you would need to fuck it all and walk away... if you wanted to.
Do you want to walk away?
Not now. But one day... I don't know. When I have a family. It's just so consuming... so many marriages get
Wall Street divorce lawyers do great in any market.
Exactly.
Aha... when did you buy the ring? Jacob smiles at his friend's perception.
Last week.
So when are you going to ask her?
I'm going to DC this weekend.
Good. I like her for you. She's one of the good ones...
Something about Bear Stearns being the first rain drop of the impending mother of all storms.
Sour grapes.
He's speaking at Columbia on Friday. If it's slow enough, a few of us might play hookie and check it out... he's the best show in town. And they continue to walk, until...
Tell me what you hear. Robby slowly nods...
I don't think you want to hear it, bro. You worship Zabel and it's not good.
I don't worship him. He's done a lot for me and I've known him a long time. But he's been acting strange lately.
That Keller Zabel is holding toxic waste they can't find a market for.
It's not true. It's rumors. There are hedge funds with huge short positions...
Jacob, you know better. You know it doesn't matter if they're rumors or not. And Robby stops walking.
Senior year I couldn't get my mind around how all those dot coms with no earnings were worth billions of dollars and you were the one who said something that made it all clear for me.
I don't remember. Turning to Jacob with...
"An asset's value can only be priced at its perception."
I said that? Robby confirms... then...
So buddy -- it don't matter if the rumors are true or not. Because in this climate... if they exist at all... then most likely... Looking his friend head on...
... you're going to cease to.
J to the Acob -- morning to you, brother. Jacob smiles...
Diego...
Okay, what's the best aphrodisiac on Wall Street?
I don't know.
Jet fuel. Diego cracks up. Jacob just shakes his head and moves on. And Jacob walks uptown... deep in thought. It's a gorgeous June Friday. Suddenly, Jacob just stops walking and stands there for a long moment... coming to a decision. And as Jacob turns around and starts heading the other way...
I'm here to see Andrew Zabel.
Is he expecting you?
No.
Jacob...
Andy. I'm sorry to come by like this but the rumors are now hitting a fever pitch and I wanted to make sure everything was okay. Zabel nods and heads for the door.
Come on...
Is everything okay? And Andrew Zabel doesn't seem all there... introspective and blank.
I remember when the starter gave me this bushy hair twelve year old kid and I said; "Donny, what the fuck -- give me a real caddy." And he said; "This kid's the best."
And you were. You had the wind down, the grade of every green.
What's going on?
But you wouldn't shut up about stocks. Twelve years old and you blabbed on and on about companies and sectors and earnings.
Andy, are we going under?
What was that piece of shit you loved? That airline equipment supplier who was branching out into car airbags--
Flour Controls. Are you okay? Zabel laughs.
Flour Controls... what a dog.
Why did you give me that bonus? Zabel stops walking and faces Jacob with...
Because I know you, Jacob. And I know you've been holding off because you didn't think you had enough. We all do that... postpone life until we believe we have what it takes to actually live it.
There isn't a better money-runner on the street... we'll get through this.
Marry her, Jacob. And have children with her and spend as much time as you can with them... and never forget that that's what's important. And Jacob L. Moore... looking his boss head on...
Andrew, if there's anyway I can help -- give back the bonus -- whatever... all you have to do is say the word. And Zabel just looks away...
There's just so much you don't know, Jacob.
Rumors of insolvency have hit the street concerning KZI's books and they're shooting first then asking questions later. The stock is now trading just a bit over thirty one dollars a share, down almost forty four percent on the session. And standing in the center of the floor, watching this...
Stunned... horrified... his universe becoming unglued. And he turns to Audry... helpless and in shock.
Who did this to us? She can only shrug... tears in her eyes. Jacob shifts his gaze over to the trading floor's electronic ticker on the wall... KZI $26.34... -$29.57. And he moves for the elevator banks... unable to take it anymore.
Andrew, call me back. I'm going to find out who did this to us. I swear to God... if it's the last thing I do.
I don't know anything about the solvency of Keller Zabel. I do know that what's bringing down the stock at this precise moment are rumors. And this practice of short selling American financial institutions then floating rumors in order to profit from them must be stopped. The uptick rule must be reinstated. Jacob glares over to the tv.
And once again, I will point to largely unregulated world of hedge funds... an ever-growing and increasing powerful area of the market that I repeatedly tried to regulate as Chairman of the SEC... And there's a loud knock on the door. Jacob ignores it.
And the collapse of this legendary New York financial institution is why I continue to fight that battle as Governor of this great state. Another knock... this time louder. Jacob mutes the tv.
What? From the door...
You weren't answering your phone.
It broke. Robby sharply nods.
Dude... He stops short... swallows...
What?
I just found this out and it hasn't hit the press yet. Once again... he stops short and looks away in frustration.
What? Robby, what are you trying to say?
Andrew Zabel threw himself in front of the subway this morning. Jacob just stands in that doorway. No reaction at all. Absolutely frozen.
He glares at it for a long moment, then... almost calmly picks up a chair and throws it into the tv... which shatters. And Jacob... not sure what to do. Until... he turns and sees... on the dresser... a gorgeous engagement ring sitting in an open box... a fuck you ring.
Our speaker today has quite a checkered background in the world of finance. Some laughter from the room.
He graduated from City College in 1966 and became a securities broker at Hudson River Bank then moved on to Smith Barney. In 1973 he went out on his own to establish a spectacular career as a independent trader then an active participant in the LBO craze of the 1980s.
Since his release in 2002, he has written and has spoken publicly about what he refers to as the current state of the world economy. He is not allowed to trade on the US exchanges. His new book "Moral Hazard! Why Wall Street Has Finally Gone Too Far." comes out in October.
No swagger in his step... not in a suit... hair not slicked back... but still looks fucking good. As he waits for the applause to wind down... and even a little longer... surveying every corner of the large room... commanding its full attention... getting it... holding the silence... until finally... he leans into the mic and says...
You're all pretty much fucked. The room breaks into laughter... Gordon smiles and waits for it to die down.
What's not funny is what's happening out there. I don't think people get it. And I know the financial center of the world doesn't get it... which happens to be Washington DC now. As he takes to a pace...
To understand where we are, we need to understand how we got here. No good deed goes unpunished, all fires start with a well meaning spark and we wanted Americans to be able to afford homes. Sounds nice enough... lets try to get the middle and lower classes into homes they can own. So we made money cheap and lowered restrictions on mortgage lending. As he takes a moment and looks over the room...
Somebody reminded me the other night that I once said "greed is good." I swear I don't remember it but it sounds like something I would say in the Eighties.
So greed has been redefined. Who knows -- maybe it was always like this and like everything else in this world, it's good and it is evil. Taking a moment to survey the room...
Because people -- it's greed that caused someone who aspires to own a seven-hundred thousand dollar house they can't afford, to take on a loan they'll never be able to pay back... and it's greed that caused their mortgage lender to give them that loan then sell it right away... and it's greed that caused the buyer of that loan to slice it into a million little pieces then spit them all over the world... and it's greed that caused the rating agency to give that toxic loan a triple-A rating just because it was mixed in with some good loans... and it's greed that caused the insurance company to insure that loan. Jacob quickly glances down again at his blackberry and checks the quote, KZI $14.53.
They were insuring the end of the world; "When the world explodes... just find us in the rubble and we'll be sure to pay your claim." Drawing in a deep breath...
CMO's, CLO's, CBO's, CDO's, CDS's, SPE's, ABCP's,SIV's, REMIC's, CMBS's, toxic traunches, ninja loans, credit default swaps, affinity marketing, stapled financing, synthetic securitization.
And I'm considered a pretty smart guy when it comes to finance! And Jacob's blackberry vibrates again. This time he removes it from his pocket, doesn't check it and simply turns it off.
And if I know our central bank -- which I do -- I predict it's going to throw gasoline on this fire with more cheap money and federal bailouts and
statistics on productivity and inflation. And Gordon stops pacing... takes a moment for effect.
So no good deed goes unpunished and all fires start with a well-meaning spark and when you take free money and no lending standards then add it with unaccountable risk and ungodly leverage and unbridled greed... what you end up with is cancer. And Gordon takes in a deep breath...
Systemic, malignant and global. Now the room is completely silent.
Do they still have the V&T restaurant on Amsterdam? Is that still there? A stunned girl in the front row shakes her head.
 God, I loved their pizza.
 I'll give you six minutes then I really have to go.
Mr. Gekko, can I speak to you for a moment? As he keeps walking...
You're too late, Sport... Q&A's over.
My name is Jacob Moore and I'm dating your daughter.
I'll give you nine minutes.
Keller, Zabel? Then you have my apologies.
Yeah...
Stock's in a free fall. My guess is that it just lost its Bar Mitzvah... Jacob quickly takes out his blackberry, turns it on and checks to see Gordon's right... KZI... $12.54.
By the end of the day it might not even be potty trained. And Jacob looks at him.
I might not be allowed to trade, Jake, but I still love to watch from home.
Andrew Zabel took me under his wing when I was in high school. He basically got me my scholarship to Yale then hired me right out of business school.
Andrew's smart, he beats the benchmarks consistently. He'll land on his feet.
He's dead. And Gordon stops walking and regards Jacob. Who confirms...
He killed himself this morning. As that registers...
I'm sorry to hear that.
He was a father to me.
I love your daughter very much and I would be honored if... And realizing what this is... Gordon starts to laugh... which throws Jacob off.
... you would bless-- I really don't understand what you find so funny.
My daughter hasn't spoken to me for eleven years and you know it. She blames me for her brother's overdose and every other disaster that's fallen upon the world since the mid-nineties.
What?
She hates me. And she hates Wall Street and everything it represents... so don't you find it curious that she would fall in love with you? And that slams into Jacob... who's frozen for a beat. Jacob finally snaps out of it then joins Gordon.
So you want my blessing?
Yes.
I guess I should know a little about you first. Where did you grow up?
Matinecock.
I'm impressed.
It wasn't like that. I mean we didn't have much money. My mother was a tailor.
And your father... what did he do?
Disappear. And Gordon regards Jacob for a long moment, taking him in, until...
Clever. Jacob looks down the street.
What are you looking for?
Your town car. With a laugh...
Well, pal... As Gordon pats Jacob on the back...
... then you're going to be looking for quite awhile. ... and heads for the subway.
She was eight in that one. It was taken in Egypt.
Can I... have it?
What do I get in return?
You... wanna make a trade? And Gordon thinks about, then...
Yes. I'll give you this picture and in return... I'd like a picture of Winnie... taken recently... without you in it.
I don't have one on me. Gordon sighs, takes the picture out of his wallet and hands it to Jacob.
Then I'll give you this one on margin.
As they wait for the train... Jacob produces the ring box and opens it to show Gordon the ring.
I really did come to ask for your blessing.
No, you didn't. Nice ring... As the train arrives...
It's so typical.  Levered to the hilt... and with the ship going down... As he gets on...
... they still gave you a bonus.
Don't play me, Jake. You don't think I can see it in your eyes? You don't think I know that look?
I know it by sight, Kid... because I lived it for years. Christ, I can even smell it on you.
Smell what on me?
Revenge. Jacob just looks away.
Some hedgehog said bad things about your company. It caused the stock to plummet and made those bad things become true. And Jacob now sees the poster that has Gordon's attention. It features a pile of money being blown out the window under the caption that reads... "If this looks familiar to you... it's because you're renting!"
The man you loved like a father threw himself in front of the uptown five this morning and you want to bring that hedgehog to their knees.
You knew he was dead? "Guardian Mortgage... Low down payments... Adjustable rates."
Like I said -- I still love to watch from home. And now Gordon turns to face Jacob with...
So don't insult me by pretending to ask for Winnifred's hand when what you really want to know is who to bring down to their knees and how to do it. And Jacob swallows that back... doesn't argue it.
I know who.
Really?
It was either Nassim Tariq from the Frontier Fund, Bretton Woods from Locust or Karen Molina from ESL.
Does Winnie even know you came to see me?
Well, not exactly.
Not such a grand idea, Pal. Off Jacob's confusion...
See, I have a feeling you're going to want to see me again. And if you tell her we had this little pow-wow... she's not going to let that happen. As Jacob considers that... the train slows to a stop.
Look, you seem like a smart kid.
... but do it quick. And with that, Gordon moves for the doors. But Jacob steps in front of him.
I'm going to bring them down. Whoever floated the rumor for a quick buck.
It's not worth it. It's a waste of energy and time. See, Jacob, nobody gets it... they never did. As the subway doors open...
If there's one thing I learned in prison it's that money is not the prime commodity in our lives... time is.
There are worse ways to go than jumping in front of a train. For instance, could you imagine taking something for your diabetes... As the doors close...
.. and end up having it cause you to die of acute pancreatitis? And as the subway pulls out of the station, Jacob Moore just stands there... holding the pole and wondering what the hell that was supposed to mean.
Andrew didn't have children, so he made all you -- all of us -- his children.
The alumni of the Morris High School class of 1997... who -- through the adopt a grade program -- Andrew pledged to pay the college educations of every member who graduated and got accepted into a University. ... past...
The members of the Saint Helena Symphony, who Andrew provided emergency funding for when they were facing extinction.
Those who were left behind... those who were overlooked... those who otherwise would never have stood a chance.
Above being just a great financial mind... or a great husband... He wears a dark suit... and a blank expression...
... or a great father... or a great neighbor... or a great friend... ... with nothing but cold retribution in his eyes.
... Andrew Zabel was a great man.
Two dollars a share?
The Fed didn't give us a choice. Jacob walks around the room... taking in the pictures of Andrew Zabel's life...
Does that include the building?
What about the Zabel's institutional managed fund? How much is in that?
Eight billion.
And that's all intact.
Jesus, United Bancorp made out like a bandit.
We could've handled it at $60 a share or even $50. He just shakes his head...
It was that fucking rumor. It was so well timed. And the market doesn't care... shoot first, ask later.
Lemmings.
Yeah, we're all out of a job. Jacob pulls away from the wall of pictures...
My mother was a tailor. They all look at him.
Out of our house less than five miles from here.
You're from Matinecock? I thought you didn't grow up with mon-- Jacob confirms...
We weren't rich. Everyone else was.
He gave me a seat at the table. ... and goes.
Jacob... Jacob takes her into his embrace...
 You were a son to him... Squeezing her tight... fighting back a rush of emotion.
I was a fucked up kid, I was angry, my mother couldn't control me. He was the only one who cared. I wouldn't be anywhere right now if it wasn't for... And Jacob Moore stops short... finally breaking down... allowing his own tears to stream down his face. He pulls away...
If you need anything. She nods. And Jacob moves away from the people and moves across the lawn. But he stops when he sees a woman standing across the way... we've seen pictures of her. She's in her late-twenties with a natural beauty that might take two glances to notice. But after that second glance... it's unforgettable. She's WINNIE GEKKO. As she rushes to him...
Jacob, I'm so sorry.
Lehigh had the committee hearings and I knew he would need you and I didn't
That's not how this works. And she looks into his eyes.
Jacob, that's not how this works. He nods. Regards her for a beat, then...
Will you marry me?
What?
I got a ring. Not on me, but--
Are you proposing to me at a funeral?
Yeah.
I had a whole thing I was going to do in DC but seeing you... the words just kind of fell out of my mouth... I don't know.
He would've loved you doing this here. Jacob agrees. And she softly kisses him and squeezes him tight... tears in her eyes.
Yes... I'll marry you, Jacob. Hugging her back.
By the way, I don't have a job anymore.
Awesome.
Winnie looks up from the ring.
It's beautiful.
Yeah...
It's too expensive. We'll return it.
No.
Jacob I don't care about what ring you give me. You know that.
We're not taking it back. I worked hard for that ring and I want you to wear it. She regards him... he's serious.
Okay.
Then Jacob pulls her into his kiss... it's almost violent. She's taken off guard. And as they fall into each other then back onto the bed...
Hey Audry. She looks up.
You cover pharm and biotech.
I did.
Who are the big players in diabetes treatments?
Lilly, Abbot, OSI, Inverness.
Is anyone riding on something in phase three?
Few midcaps maybe. You want me to check? He nods. She turns on her computer and takes a seat.
Oh, this takes me back to when I had a job... He stands over her shoulder.
Yeah, Amlyn pharmaceuticals has Byetta going in front of the FDA next month. I remember this...
they pulled it during phase two because some of the test subjects died but they've obviously solved those problems now.
How did they die?
I don't remember.
Pancreatitis?
Yeah. That was it. Jacob shakes his head...
How did he know?
Who? Without answering her...
Can you look up large institutional ownership?
Mutual or hedge?
Hedge.
Locust Fund owns a shitload. And she looks over to Jacob with...
Bretton Woods. As he takes in that information...
Want your severance, Audry? And he kisses her on the forehead...
Short Amlyn pharmaceuticals. ... and goes.
I don't know exactly but it's not something you wanna come down with.
As they stand in front of a huge Sigmar Polke...
Any day now.
While showering Jacob with quick jabs...
Where's your information from?
Holding the wine he's supposed to be sampling but not drinking it...
A doctor that's very close to the trials... and that's all I can say.
As they move on from the Polke...
But listen, I'm out of work now so I can't afford to get behind size on this trade... I'm only telling you because you've helped me in the past.
As he removes his head gear and wipes away the sweat.
This is completely off the record. So please...
As they receive the next glass of wine...
... don't tell anyone.
And as he brings her into his embrace...
Your boy's coming up in the polls. Senator Lehigh nods.
They're blaming this mess on the current administration... it's helping us. And some people say that the worst isn't over.
Her father. What's the word he uses... systemic. Winnie looks over to Jacob.
When did he say that? And Jacob takes for an extra long moment... holding her look... then comes to a decision and lies...
On Charlie Rose.
 Okay -- so when's the big date?
As he receives the digital receipt... "1209 instant messages sent."
... another stock that's getting beaten before the bell is Amlyn Pharmaceuticals. The stock's down nine percent in premarket trading on no news. Jacob smiles.
When we come back we have Blue star Airlines' CEO Bud Fox discussing how he turned his once small regional airline into the country's third largest carrier.
As the INVESTOR RELATIONS OFFICER heads up the podium and opens his prepared statement...
If he wins... she has a real chance for a cabinet position and I'm pretty sure she'll take me with her if she can.
He's going to win. As she hands him the glass of water...
Don't jinx it. And Jacob sees Amlyn Pharmaceuticals graphic on the screen and turns up the tv.
Big drop in Amlyn as negative rumors on the street forced the company to admit there are still internal concerns about Byetta and pancreatitis. They now may be forced to pull the phase three drug from FDA review and retool.
Can we watch something else? Jacob brings her in and kisses her...
Whatever you want. Her phone rings. As she goes to answer it...
Not Project Runway. Picking up the phone...
Hello... who is this? Hold on. As she pulls the phone away from her ear and looks over to Jacob...
It's for you... someone named Bretton Woods?
I'm here to see Bretton Woods. The butler nods then leads Jacob through the full floor unit and into the...
As you can see, I'm having a little dinner party here but I thought it was important we speak right away. He speaks with a British accent.. Jacob nods. Bretton looks over the room for a moment, scans his guests then back at Jacob...
Please... if you don't mind waiting in my office, I'll be in a minute. And the butler is already at Jacob's side, motioning him to follow him.
Saturno devorando a sus hijos. As Jacob turns to see Bretton standing in the doorway.
Saturn devouring his son. Francisco Goya. Bretton heads in and closes the door behind him.
Do you collect?
No. Sitting behind his desk...
Only the obsessive compulsive or the insecure egotistical feel the need to collect things. Jacob nods. Bretton just looks at him... making him nervous.
Your daughter's an amazing piano player. That was quite a show.
That wasn't my daughter. That was Isabel Patrovsky, she's the world's greatest living piano prodigy.
You cost my fund three hundred and forty million dollars today. Off of Jacob's slight smile...
Yeah, kills my year, pushes my watermark higher and might cause redemptions.
You don't want to deny it?
No.
Who told you?
A doctor I know. Bretton nods... regards him.
I checked with all the desks in town... you didn't make money off it.
That's right.
Then why did you do it?
You destroyed my firm.
Your firm destroyed itself.
You killed Andrew Zabel.
Andrew Zabel killed himself. And Bretton sighs...
The rumors were true.
You made them true.
No, Jacob, being levered thirty-eight to one in toxic debt made them true.
His fatal flaw was allowing the children on his mortgage security desk to talk him into the deadly game of hot potato everybody's been so fond of playing recently. And Jacob holds Bretton's look for a moment, then... heads for the door without saying a thing...
Come work for me. Jacob stops and turns...
What?
I run three billion dollars. Come help me run it. And Jacob takes a beat... processing this...
Why me?
Because your loyalty desired revenge, your balls actually attempted it and your skills pulled it off. As he stands...
And as for Andrew Zabel... there really is no telling why he did what he did.
Now I'm going on Safari with my family. Think about the offer and get in touch after the July 4th holiday. ... heading for the door...
You got my attention, Jacob... and that's one of the rarest commodities out there. And Jacob just regards him, then...
You can have my answer now, Bretton... I have no interest in working for a fund that's in trouble. Bretton smiles...
Touche. Jacob nods... holding Bretton's look. Then...
What's your number?
Excuse me?
The amount of money you would need to be able to walk away from it all and just live happily-ever-after.
More. ... and disappears into his penthouse.
You know what I overheard a guy say yesterday?
I know you're going to tell me... Diego smiles...
"This market's just like a divorce. I've lost half my money... only I still have my wife!" As he goes into the hot summer day...
Not bad...
There's a wait.
Oh...
Fifteen minutes she said.
Okay.
No, that's not okay. Because it means they're crowded so every tier in the service chain will be extended. The sixteen minutes we would normally wait to order will now be twenty six, the standard twenty four minutes waiting for our food to arrive will turn into thirty nine, the eight minutes to get the check will become seventeen and the four minutes to process the credit card will take nine.
Let's go to Whole Foods.
Did you eat before?
Just not hungry.
Yeah... I used to not eat lunch too. Jacob nods and slides something across the table. The picture of Winnie in workout gear, flipping the finger. Gordon looks at it and laughs.
Fitting. As he places it in his pocket...
That'll make it a round trade for us.
I actually owe you one now. Off Gordon's look...
I crushed him.
Did you?
His fund is bleeding. I wouldn't be surprised if the redemptions finish the job.
Well, Chief... you seem awfully proud of yourself.
How'd you know about Amlyn? Gordon shrugs.
It's amazing what information you can find out when people know you're not going to trade on it.
So, you didn't use me to make a little money? And never to look up from his lunch...
Naw. I prefer to write about the action now than be apart of it.
Why'd you give it to me?
You're out of a job and most likely going to marry my daughter... I figured you could use the money.
I didn't make any money off of it.
You didn't trade it? With a smile in and over-the-top faux innocence.
That would've been insider trading, Mr. Gekko. Gordon just shakes his head.
And not "most likely."
So did you take my advice and not tell your new fiance about our little friendship. Jacob doesn't say anything. And Gordon doesn't press.
So, I'm guessing she's not going to take your last name.
Good guess.
That's my Winnie. I knew she was a feminist when she was five and furious that Mrs. Claus didn't get enough credit. And this makes Jacob smile... then...
My brother has two daughters. I had Winnie and Rudy.  And since Rudy... you know... well, I've worried about the name. It's something you don't really think about until you hit sixty or so but it's important. As they walk some more in silence, until...
I want you to get my daughter to accept me back into her life again, Jacob.
Because save for the extremely precious and depreciating asset of time... she's all I have. As Gordon stops in front of a Georgian-style, pre-war building and turns to Jacob...
C'mon, I'll show you some more pictures of your fiancee that she doesn't want you to see.
He's a hedge fund type, real SLICK, reminds us of Gekko twenty years ago. Oh... and he's about 29 years old.
Gordon... Gekko nods. Slick hits his floor... "PH."
Sky still falling?
You know it.
 Sells books I guess.
She refused to take that cowboy hat off. She actually slept in it. Smitten, Jacob looks at some more of the pictures then stands... taking in the large framed pictures on the wall. As Jacob checks out a framed chart for "Gouda Tulip Bulbs Dec 1 1634 to Feb 5 1637." The chart goes straight up and to the right then straight down in a single line.
Tulip mania... the art of a bubble.
Bretton offered to hire me.
And did you accept? As Jacob moves over to an another piece.
Fuck no. Jacob now finds himself looking at a political cartoon from the early 1900s. It's of two men rowing a boat in a lake of dollars. One of the men is Uncle Sam dressed in US flag colors. But Sam's very small in this cartoon... can't really row the boat. The other man is much bigger and clearly doing the heavy rowing. He is...
JP Morgan... he single-handedly stopped the Panic of 1907 by stepping in and buying up shares in all the companies that were crashing. Everyone else quickly followed like lemmings.  See -- people had stopped looking to their government or trusted advisors. They looked to JP Morgan. It was all about simple psychology -- every crash should have a JP Morgan to step in and save it. As they walk the hardwood floor...
See Jacob... the best opportunities are found where angels fear to tread. And they arrive at the next piece on the wall... a small framed bond.
That's a bond issued by the Central American country of Poyais. Gregor McGregor made a fortune dealing these to the British elite in 1820.
Weimer Republic of Germany 1922. Inflation turned to hyper-inflation and it was more efficient to burn the money for heat than spend it.
That's horrifying.
I know. As they both hold on the picture...
What caused it?
A country in debt... that took on even more debt to fund a war... then printed mountains of money to avoid a depression and other financial imbalances... As he turns to face Jacob...
... sound familiar?
And you honestly think this is where we're heading? Looking Jacob head on... deadly serious...
If we don't take our heads out of the sand... yes. It's going to get bad out there, Champ, I'm not going to lie. Even the small regional bank I started out at might go under.
Hudson River Bank...
That's right. And then...
And I've got some news for you... he ain't bleeding. He's not even cut.
What are you talking about?
What I'm talking about, Jake... is that I'd bet dollars to donuts that Bretton Woods unwound most of his position in Amlyn last week. That he knew about the pancreatitis. Off of Jacob's confusion...
The only reason you think you hurt him is because he wanted you to think that.
How do you know that?
I don't. But it's not Bretton's first rodeo... and my instincts for this sort of thing don't often disappoint. Jacob can't believe it. And with each passing moment of realization... shock turns into rage.
I can't believe it.
Believe it, Princess... he's beating your ass all over the court. As Jacob tries to calm himself.
And you think I should take the job -- bring him down from the inside? Gordon confirms that with a simple shake of the head and...
I don't know, Jake... what you kids think is pay-back these days is really incredible. When I was coming up, we slaughtered men.
So I'll make you another trade, Jake. I'll help you bring him down, if you help me get her back. As Jacob just looks away... non committal.
... then you both can have a father.
Jacob, I could lose my job. ... who holds his sleeping infant in his hands.
Robby, I need to know. Now nobody moves size in this town without using your desk.
Fire away...
Bretton Woods... The Locust Fund... did they make any major moves in the last few weeks?
Yes.
Was it unloading Amlyn pharmaceuticals?
Robby, I got you the fucking the job! And after a long moment.
Yes. Jacob stops walking... sucks in a deep breath...
I'm sorry to make you do that. With that, he disconnects and shakes his head in frustration. And after a moment, Jacob sucks in a deep breath then makes another call.
 Okay Gordon... you've got yourself a trade.
Exploding over the Capitol building.
My parents would always throw this huge party in the Hamptons on the fourth. The city of South Hampton would have its firework show at 8pm then my father would wait until it was over then put on his... which, of course, was always twice as spectacular. She leans up, sips her wine, then...
Then one year the city passed an ordinance that their firework show had to be the last of the night... they were sick of getting shown up by Gordon Gekko. Jacob laughs...
What'd he do?
He rented a barge and shot the fireworks off of it a mile off the coast... out of jurisdiction.  The show was even more amazing over the water. And Jacob looks at her.
I think he should be invited to the wedding.
No.
Winnie, he's your father... As the fireworks explode into their finale...
You don't know him.
I know he's unhappy. Look at him out there... trying to scare everybody. He's desperate for attention.
This is none of your business.
"That's not how this works." Remember? She just looks away...
He's got nothing. The firework show ends and everyone applauds...
And that's what he deserves. Suddenly, everyone begins to look over to the house where something is happening...
The things that came out after he was convicted. The affairs... the things he was recorded saying... SECRET SERVICE PERSONNEL, wearing ear pieces, start walking the lawn.
This wasn't the man we knew, Jacob. It was... sociopathic. She stands up and looks across the lawn to where all the action is.
It was a long time ago. He stands and kisses her...
Just consider it, okay? That's all I'm asking. She holds his look for a long moment, then... nodding over to all the excitement...
C'mon, you can meet the next President of the United States.
Jacob... are you ready? Jacob stands and she leads him toward a bank of elevators. The doors open and Jacob gets on.
Do you have everything they said you'd need? Jacob nods... holding a folder of his previous tax forms, his passport and other documents obviously needed for the job. And the elevator doors open... but not to an office... Jacob shields his eyes to the wash of daylight... then looks to realize that he's on the roof of the building. And in front of him is... An Augusta A109E Helicopter with "The Locust Fund" written on the side.
And Jacob is lead into the...
Where Bretton eats alone at the head of the long table.
Jacob. As Jacob walks through the expansive space...
Mr. Woods.
 Bretton. ... and sits.
Okay... Bretton. I thought we were going to meet in New York.
And I thought you had no interest in working for a fund that was in trouble.
I was emotional. I was angry.
And what changed?
I caught a glance of my portfolio.
Cute dogs.
Dogue de Bordeaux... bred to kill. But Contango and Backwardation here are socialized since birth so they're harmless. Jacob laughs...
You named your dogs after technical futures market terms? And Bretton stands...
Of course not...  My children did. As he heads into...
And where are your children? Bretton moves toward a table with a classic phonograph player on it.
Greece with my wife. My boys are studying The Iliad now. While Bretton looks through the various sleeves of records, Contango and Backwardation slowly find their way into the room and sit by the fire. Bretton finds what he's looking for... removing the record from its sleeve.
Here it is... one of the most beautiful pieces of music you'll ever hear. Bretton places the record on the phonograph and The Rolling Stones "Let It Loose" rings out...
"Exile On Main Street," without a doubt The Stones greatest album. Jacob laughs. He was expecting Beethoven.
It was all outtakes. Throwaway tracks. And the critics hated it. And it didn't sell well at first.
And that was the greatest lesson I ever learned about investing.
An asset's value can only be priced at its perception.
You'll work out of the New York office. I wouldn't want to pull you away from your fiancee in Washington.
Thank you.
She's Gordon Gekko's daughter.
That's right.
He was a legend at one time. It's quite sad how he publicly cries out wolf now. Bretton stands and stretches.
You see, for a legend...
... the only thing worse than death is becoming irrelevant. And Bretton just sits there... enjoying his scotch while taking in the Stones tune...
Good work, kid -- you're on the inside now.
He's going to Dubai to raise some money then meeting me in New York to set me up. Gordon sits at the dining room table at his apartment. Papers scattered about and his EDITOR waiting patiently.
No.
What?
He's not meeting you in New York.
Why not?
Because you need to go to Dubai with him.
I don't understand.
You need to do something that will earn his trust... you need to make yourself a hero...
Jacob... you need to help him get this money. And Jacob glares at Bretton like he might kill him.
But be cautious. Your relationship with Bretton is still fragile -- you fuck it up here and you're done. Bretton looks up and Jacob immediately replaces his glare with a smile.
Looks better than meals I get on United.
John's Pizza on Bleeker. It crossed the Atlantic with you yesterday. Would you like a slice? Jacob declines... then...
I appreciate you wanting to help with this part of the business even though it's not your expertise.
Well -- there's a lot I can learn from you.
For this trip just stay in the background and observe. As Bretton tosses some pizza to Contango and Backwardation...
We're going to meet with Oleg Bakunin. He's a Russian oligarch on the run because Putin wanted to steal everything he owns. He already has a few hundred million with us but I'm looking to get half a billion more. Our maintenance fee on that alone would be ten million a year.
He worked in a mid-level job for United Bancorp actually...
Got a fishing kit when he retired.
Richard Branson purchased Great Britain, Rod Stewart bought Germany, Tommy Lee bought Greece.
Jacob and Bretton ride into the city. Bretton takes a call on his Vertu.
Looks like a bit of news broke while we were in the air... And Bretton turns on Fox Business to see footage of... The Governor of New York standing at a podium next to his WIFE. He doesn't look happy as he says...
The remorse I feel will always be with me. Words cannot describe how grateful I am for the love and compassion they have shown me. From those to whom much is given, much is expected..
He's been after us for years...
I have been given much -- the love of my family, the faith and trust of the people of New York, and the chance to lead this state Laughing with delight...
Oh Jacob... you don't want to live in a glass house if you're gonna play this game.
I don't understand. Is he resigning?
Yes sir.
What'd he do? And Bretton simply turns to him and says...
Outsourced.
There's a big party for Oleg tonight at a club called The Left Bank. It's Roaring 20s themed so I've had original suits from that era delivered to our rooms.
Remember. Hedge funds are not banking and this isn't Ivy-league-geography- ninth-hole deal making.
Oleg's a brute, he's has A.D.D. and he likes to party. As they stop in front of large double doors... the BELLMAN opens the doors to reveal...
I'm just down the hall.  I hope you don't mind I took the nicer one.
If he offers you a drink -- take it. And with that, Bretton points across the room where OLEG BAKUNIN sits.
If he offers you a line of coke -- snort it. He's in his mid-40s, overweight, sweaty, draped in tight black Prada and smoking a cigarette.
If he offers you a child -- raise it. And it seems A MODEL BOMB has recently exploded at Oleg's table... leaving the skinny shards everywhere. Oleg sees them, stands and opens his arms.
Bretton Woods has arrived. Bretton smiles. They head over. Oleg turns to one of the MODEL GIRLS next to him.
I want you to meet one of the only men in the world who might be as rich as I am. Wait a minute... Bretton what did oil close at today?
A hundred and twenty-nine dollars a barrel.
 Forget what I said -- I'm much richer than him. Oleg then looks at Jacob.
Who the fuck is this?
Oleg, I'm Jacob Moore. It's nice to meet you. Oleg regards Jacob for a beat, then back to Bretton and asks again...
Who the fuck is this? Bretton smiles...
Jacob has recently come over from KZI to work with me. And now Oleg turns to Jacob.
KZI? You worked with Andrew Zabel? Jacob takes a beat. Then...
That's right.
He was a legend. Jacob just nods, not showing any emotion. Oleg motions for the girls to make room and they all sit...
It was that mortgage shit. He should've just focused on managing money and not fuck around with that crazy mortgage shit. Bretton just looks away. Jacob stays cool.
It was a shame his fund was only for institutions... I would've liked to have invested. Oleg motions to a WAITRESS who immediately pours vintage champagne.
In honor of the theme tonight, have a glass of 1927 Heidsiek champagne... Oleg hands Jacob a flute before he can decline.
This is one of two hundred bottles discovered on a shipwreck off the coast of Finland... thirty grand a bottle. And Oleg aggressively puts his arm around Jacob, bringing him into a drunken half-bear hug and spilling most of the champagne out of Jacob's flute.
Fishing boats bob violently in the water -- and next to them is Oleg's Phoenix 1000, his personal, 65-meter SUBMARINE. As a boatman helps them all climb aboard:
Phoenix 1000.
5000 square feet, 30 days of oxygen capacity.
Bretton, I have... what?... two hundred million with you.
And hopefully that's just a start. Oleg, there are so many opportunities out there right now I feel like a kid in the candy store. Oleg waves him off.
You know I like to spread it around... I'm like my own fund of funds. I don't like to have too much with one manager. As Oleg shakes cocaine out of an envelope...
You never really know who to trust in this world. Jacob takes a beat, swallows nervously, then...
I couldn't agree more, Oleg. It's one of the first things that Andrew Zabel taught me. I worked very closely with him. It's why Bretton hired me. To get behind the Andrew Zabel curtain. Bretton flashes Jacob a look... "What the hell are you doing?" Jacob swallows back some nerves then continues...
You said before that you always wanted to invest with Zabel but couldn't because he only handled institutional money. Well here's your chance. Zabel taught me everything he knew. Oleg looks up to Jacob from the line of coke with interest.
Such as... ?
Well, I'm not going to give you the whole cake, Oleg... He looks over to Bretton who still glares at Jacob...
But I can give you a little bite...
It's complicated but like Bretton said -- right now there are more opportunities than ever. Oleg simply nods... with a simple...
Interesting. ... then does another line.
We're here for the party. Confused...
What party?
Oleg said you needed a party... Cozying up to her friend with a smile...
... and we're it. Jacob nervously thinks, then...
Come in.
Right there... ? ... past the empty bottle of champagne...
No... not there...
How about there? I bet you want me to do it there. ... past the plate of half-eaten chocolate strawberries...
No... I want you to hold it. And find the three of them...
But it's gone up so much. ... sitting at Jacob's computer... looking over a chart for a Russian oil company.
I know... but if you're going to correctly utilize this technical head and shoulders strategy, you need to hold the stock until...  ... right here.
I always sell too soon.
Very common mistake. You need to cut your losers short and let your winners run. She looks to her friend with a smile...
Good advice for everything... no? Her friend agrees with a laugh. And Jacob checks the clock.
Okay. I think enough time has passed. I appreciate you guys keeping our little secret.
You must love her very much.
I do. Jacob opens the door to let them go but he hears a door open across the hall... Bretton's. And they all witness a YOUNGER AMERICAN WOMAN leave Bretton's room then head down the hall right by them. Jacob's stunned.
The most famous hooker in the world. Off Jacob's confusion...
Is she a gift from Oleg?
No. She's Bretton's go-to.
He flies her in wherever he's at. And Jacob slowly takes that in... absolutely floored.
You look like crap. They walk for the exit.
Let me ask you something... was that speech about split strike prices and stocks new to volatility for real?
No Bretton. That was all bullshit.
Well, it worked. Oleg's wiring us five hundred million dollars today. And Bretton turns to Jacob... impressed.
Good job, Jacob... And as they head out into the Dubai heat...
So he trust you now.
I think so. Travel the park to find... Jacob and Gordon stopping at the food vendors.
Well, I'm happy to help.
Oh... I'm still working on it.
So you're a hedge fund cowboy now? Shaking his head...
Goddamn hedge funds -- what a racket. Playing the world casino, betting other people's money with leverage. And it's completely legal and completely unregulated.
The hustles they get away with make insider trading seem like a parking ticket.
Nassim Tariq and his Frontier Fund. With their slews of MIT grads who become glorified millionaire robots pushing buttons... ... with casually dressed ASIANS and INDIANS in their 20s working the keyboards like zombies.
... slaves to top-secret propriety elegant algorithms that work until they don't.
Or the baby cub funds like Sammy Rosen's Essex Advisers... filled with Goldman Sachs and Julian Robertson pedigree. Most of the men type on their blackberrys... one is actually asleep.
Men who are way too rich, lazy and tired to run money properly anymore.
A small cluttered office with papers strewn about...
Or Allan Daniel's and his bully operation. ALLAN DANIELS, a small bull-dog of a man, paces back and forth... dictating in anger. His SECRETARY types down every word he's shouting.
... with his angry letters to company boards that are nothing but veiled threats in the name of activism.
So you're inside... you have his trust... and now you want to know what's next. And Jacob's look over to Gekko confirms this.
Here's the thing about Bretton. He puts all of his money into his own fund which makes him stupid, egotistical, and most importantly... vulnerable.
That pretzel looks good. Jacob just shrugs.
Care to make a trade?
Whatever. And they trade. The hotdog for the pretzel.
As for your end of our trade.
Is that a threat? Looking Jacob dead on...
Absolutely. Jacob just shakes his head with a laugh... now realizing that Gekko talked him into this position for this exact leverage.
You're priceless, Gordon.
Just be happy I'm on your team.
What bad position?
What have I been saying all along, Kid?
Financials.
They're a death trap -- mark my words.
But he won't fall for a brokerage or bank play this late in the game. Everyone knows they're poison.
Sell him on insurance. There's a case to be made for those stocks... ill- fated as they may be. ... books on the shelves... pictures on the walls... a couch and table... a paper shredder and waste baskets...
But take your time... make him think you've been doing your due diligence. Find Jacob at his desk... working away at his computer... it's late at night.
Make it look like you're working your ass off to find him this genius trade... come in early, leave late and don't bring up the idea for at least a few weeks. And Jacob finally gets up from his desk... goes to the window... looking across midtown Manhattan...
And then Jacob... ... eyes pasted on a building made of glass and steel... a building he once called home...
... sell him hard... then watch him bite... then watch him chase... ... KZI Investments.
... then watch him come undone.
Bring it. Diego smiles... loves this new one...
What's the most dangerous question on Wall Street?
Tell me.
"How are you?" And Jacob agrees whole-heartedly as he heads on his way.
Why are you with me? She stops and turns back to him.
What?
You hate finance. You hate Wall Street. Why are you with me? Winnie nods. It's a valid question. And she thinks about it for a moment, then...
Repetition compulsion.
Huh?
It's Freud.
And what does it mean, psych major?
Well, it's when people repeat the same dysfunctional relationships from childhood in their adult life in hopes of trying to master them.
Like when children of alcoholics fall in love with alcoholics.
Yeah. He turns away... upset.
That's great, Winnie.
Jacob, that might be why I was initially attracted to you... but it's not why I love you. She moves to him.
I love you because you're compassionate and you care so deeply about what you do and you have like no ego, it's crazy. She reaches to him... turning his face to meet hers.
And you're the smartest person I've ever met... and there's nobody I trust more in the world. Jacob looks away... almost ashamed. And Winnie can sense something's not right.
What's wrong?
Nothing... As Jacob draws in a deep breath, collects himself and finally turns back to her with...
I just wish you would master that relationship from childhood so you can move forward with this one.
And as a circle is formed around August 11th, we...
Bretton... I found something I like. Bretton looks over to him.
I've been wondering when my new portfolio manager was going to come to me with something special.
I just wanted to make sure I would be bringing you the smartest idea possible. I know you don't go light. Confirming...
That's right. If I commit to this... we go large and we don't back down.
It might be better to do this in the office. I have color and support to
Waving him off...
C'mon Jacob, you know that's not how we do.
Jacob and Bretton emerge from the jetvan.
This is how we do. And with a nod, the DRIVER of the other jetvan opens it to reveal two motorcycles inside. Bretton's MTT Turbine Superbike and an Agusta, these bikes are handcrafted works of art as much as they are demons of speed. Jacob laughs in disbelief and excitement.
And we're allowed to ride these through here? Sucking in the fresh summer air...
No.
Follow me... And with that, shoots into the forest. Jacob quickly follows.
You're going to have to keep up.
Okay. I'm just getting used to it.
Tell me your idea.
Here?
Where else?
Right. Okay.
No. After KZI, I took profits.
I think it's time to go the other way.
Banks?
Insurance companies. I'm talking the old school insurers that have become the babies thrown out with the bath water. Jacob waits for a reaction from Bretton. But all he gets is...
Keep up! And with that, Bretton rips into the clearing. Jacob rides just as fast. They're neck and neck... it's definitely a race. Bretton pulls ahead but Jacob doesn't give up. As they move quickly toward a patch of forest with a only narrow trail entering it, Jacob focuses on the horizon and revs the bike into more speed. He pulls up next to Bretton as they approach the trail. If Jacob doesn't slow down, and fall in line behind Bretton, he's going to hit the trees. But he doesn't. Instead, Jacob blasts the bike into its final dose of speed, narrowly avoiding impact by zipping into the trail... pulling ahead of Bretton and taking the lead.
The basket of stocks I'm putting together focuses on reinsurance brokering and management services for businesses. They're trading below book and have large dividends.
Financials are a falling knife. Jacob nods...
I'm not arguing that... but the best opportunities are found where angels fear to tread. Jacob can see... he has Bretton on the hook.
So yeah -- they are falling knives. But Bretton... And with confidence... driving it home...
... what's life without a little blood on your hands?
Okay. Then I want you to build positions in your favorite three names. Jacob picks up the phone and...
I want you stealth. Use all six trading desks we're in business with.
And if they go down... we increase our size.
See Jacob -- I don't believe in "wrong." MCC at $21.65, ACN at $16.24 and ISS at $7.23.
I only believe in "not right yet."
He chose this restaurant. Jacob confirms.
We used to come here every Sunday night. He takes her hand.
You're going to be fine.
I'm only doing this for you.
No. You're doing this for you. She just glares at him.
We're never having sex again.
Then what my friends say about marriage will be true.
Oh, shut up.
Hi. Fighting back the nerves...
Hey. They just stand there. Jacob holds out his hand.
Mr. Gekko, I'm Jacob Moore, we spoke on the phone. Nice to finally meet in person. Gekko just looks at him for an extra long beat, then... shakes his hand.
Yes. They all sit.
Jacob, shall we get some wine?
I don't drink.
Oh... okay. Then Gordon attempts a smile over to his daughter.
Let me guess... the ginger garlic lobster.
I'm not really hungry.
I've been following your career, Winnie. Senator Lehigh said some very nice things about you in The American Prospect interview.
Yeah. She's really been... very... supportive of my... And it trails off... as she just glares at Gordon.
I can't do this. She exhales, stands and looks down to Jacob.
I'm sorry. I can't do this. And she quickly walks off. Jacob frozen. Until Gordon looks over to him with...
It's okay. This is a long term investment.
Winnie... Winnie... He turns her around.
You don't understand. Her tears being washed away by the rain.
My mother couldn't handle Rudy. He was so out of control. I couldn't help him. Jacob takes her into his hold...
Your brother's dead, Winnie.
Your father isn't.
He's not the person people think he is.
It was a long time ago. She pulls out of his embrace...
He'll hurt us. Can't we just go home? Please... Jacob. It's raining. And he just looks at her for a long moment... soaking wet and shivering... crying and exposed.
 I love you. You don't have to do this.
Yes.
Your insurance companies are down. He's working a coffee in the master suite of The Black Swan Home...
Bretton.
I want to increase our size. Glancing at the LCD, 12:23am...
Okay. Good. It's just a matter of time before they turn. I'll call the
Jacob, I want you to triple our positions on all three.
Okay.
And they better fucking go up. Click. And as Jacob just looks at the phone...
The instant you know you're in trouble is the exact moment when a sound investment thesis turns into blind hope.
Tripling the size... that's a very aggressive move. Jacob nods.
And I promise you he's using leverage to do this.
He's chasing. Suddenly, a MAN approaches the table. He's in his thirties.
Mr Gekko, I'm Tom Sanders. I write for Barrons.
I've heard of it. Letting out a little laugh...
I'm sure you have.
Can you give me the cover? Tom isn't sure if Gordon's serious. Either is Jacob.
Well, I... um... don't make those decisions.
Get me the cover and I'll give you seventy minutes. Tom politely smiles.
I'll... take that as a no. ... and goes. Gordon looks down to his breakfast and quietly asserts...
 Both those assholes got the cover when they were convicted. And after a moment...
How do we know the insurance companies are going to continue going down? As he casually places his egg on a piece of toast...
It's all going down. ... and takes a bite.
Just wait. And we stop in September. And as a blue circle is formed over Sept 13th on all three charts, we...
Welcome to the 2008 Financial Follies!
When The Financial Writers Association asked me to host an event for the world of finance, I was shocked. I'm known in Washington not Wall Street...
I asked them if anything's off limits. And they said to stay away from the brokerages, banks and insurers...  ... where the fuck was that advice five months ago? More laughter.
I see Sammy Rosen's here. The spotlight finds SAMMY ROSEN, billionaire hedge funder.
Sammy, how are you? From his table...
Doing well.
 Of course he is... in the amount of time it took for us to have that exchange, he made three hundred and nine thousand dollars.  Sammy, let me give you some free advice, the next time someone with bad eyesight wants to sell you a hundred and fifty million dollar painting... don't let them personally deliver it.
Somebody told me Gordon Gekko is here. Gordon... ? Across the room, a spotlight finds Gordon...
There you are. I have some inside information for you, Gekko... sex sells books, not bread lines. Gordon smiles and raises his glass up to Bill.
Talk about your sour grapes. Seriously Gordon -- just because the SEC doesn't let you make obscene amounts of money by being wrong and nefarious doesn't mean you have to ruin it for all of these hard working people. The room applauds...
Okay, we have a video to show now. It's a very detailed and academic account of the current mortgage crises. Let `er rip! And the room goes dark... and on the screen plays a childlike roughly illustrated stick-figure skit being narrated by children.
Under the caption "Main Street National Bank" is a drawing of a Poor Man sitting across from a Banker Man behind his desk.
I'd like a mortgage... I don't really have any money though... is that cool?
Totally cool. Since housing prices are always going up it won't be a problem.
You guys are awesome!
Under the caption "A few weeks later at the bank..." Banker Man now stands over a pile of steaming shit.
Wow, these mortgages are really beginning to smell. I better sell them to smart people.
Under the caption of "Smart People Investment Bank" Smart Man stands over the same steaming pile of shit.
Wow, these mortgages we just bought really smell. I better sell them to foreigners.
Under the caption of "The CDO Factory" our smart man oversees an assembly line of stick figure workers.
Mix those crappy mortgages in real good with the clean ones so the rating agencies won't smell them.
Under the caption of "Rich Man Hedge Fund" a stick figure named Rich Man sits behind his desk and holds a phone to his ear.
Good news, Smart Man, not only did foreigners buy those traunches, but so did school boards and charities and big pensions.
Under the caption "Norwegian Village Pension Fund" a Norwegian Man sits behind his desk and shouts into his phone.
Hey man! What the fuck? We're not receiving our monthly payments!
Under the caption "Rich Man Hedge Fund," Rich Man at his desk on the phone.
Yeah, we fucked up.
What about the rating agencies?
Yeah, they fucked up too.
What about the investment bank that put these CDO's together?
Fucked up.
What about the bank that made the original loan?
Totally fucked up.
What am I supposed to tell my villagers?
That you fucked up. The final frame Just the rendering of that steaming pile of shit under the caption... "The End." And the lights go on to a some subdued laughter and a smattering of applause.
What a year -- enjoy the night!
It's a good question... what do you think, George? GEORGE, an investment banker at the table, thinks about it.
The definition of rich... flying private. The table reacts... some agree, other don't. George turns to Jacob.
Jacob... ? What do you think?
To be rich... is to have the love of a good woman. They all boo...
 For real... I truly believe that. And Jacob turns to Bretton...
Bretton... what's your definition of rich? An approaching voice answers it for him.
To have twice as much money as you currently do. As he takes a seat...
Isn't that what you always say, Bretton? Then... announcing to the table...
He brings up the question, runs it round the table then finishes with that. It's an old bit. Also announcing to the table...
Be careful Gordon...  ... your daughter's financial health is in my hands now. Jacob loses his smile... suddenly becoming uncomfortable.
That's right.
No, I don't suppose you did. Bretton looks over to Jacob.
Go ahead, Jacob, preach your book... defend your names. And Jacob turns to Gordon...
We have a proactive central bank, the charts show a clear bottom on July 15th and these companies are trading at half of what they were six months ago.
Just cause it's low don't make it cheap, Sport.
I read your book.
It's not out yet.
I have a friend in publishing.
Really Gordon? Do you really need attention that badly?
Since I have forty-four seconds to spare, I'm going to tell you a story. It's about a guy named Sam. And we go close on Gekko...
Sam used to work a job, he made things and he grew things and he sold those things. Until one day Sam got a credit card and was amazed how easy it was to buy things with it. So Sam got another card and then another. Then he used the credit card money to make it look like he had an income... and he used that "income" to secure a loan.
And with that loan Sam bought a fancy BMW car and rented a fancy penthouse apartment.
And Sam doesn't make anything anymore and Sam doesn't grow anything anymore so Sam doesn't sell anything anymore. As he stands...
Our favorite Uncle Sam's desperate, Jake... and he just found a printing press in his basement.
(doing his best Howard
Down goes Lehman! Down goes Lehman! Down goes Lehman! And Jacob just keeps walking...
They're not going to save it. They're just going to let it bloody die! And sure enough... on the tv... Fox Business runs footage of Lehman Brother's demise. On the screen, the chyron screams:
And as another US banking institution collapses, Congress is working quickly on a bailout package that will distribute over three hundred billion dollars to other banks in trouble. Bretton turns off the tv and looks to Jacob with...
We're getting fucking killed. And Jacob looks up to his electronic ticker...
It's capitulation. Bretton holds Jacob's look... fighting to keep his composure. Until... he simply stands and offers Jacob his desk back.
Then buy more. Jacob takes his chair and reaches for the phone.
Cost us down to current levels. Jacob looks up, surprised.
It's just a question of time before this turns around... right? And he glares at Jacob.
Right. Bretton just stares nervously at the electronic ticker... a frazzled gambler talking himself into his bet.
Fuck it.
Leverage is sexy.
I would hear him in the kitchen. Jacob turns to see she's awake.
I'm sorry, you have an early train. I'm going to just go to the office now. She leans up.
He didn't want to keep my mother awake so he'd go into the kitchen and sit there. I could hear him because my room was right up the back stairs. I'd go and sit with him sometimes. We'd eat ice cream. Jacob gets out of bed and throws on his robe.
I was only eight but I could tell he was worried about something and that made me worried.  Then the market would go back up and he would sleep through the night again.
It's not the market, Winnie. As he sits on the edge of the bed...
It's just that I haven't been able to sleep through the night since... The thought trails off... she leans up and kisses him.
I wish I could tell you something was going to come along that would make it better but I can't. It's just going to take time, Jacob. A lot of time. And she looks into his eyes...
Have you been counting Fridays? He slowly nods.
I still count Tuesdays.
Go back to sleep. And he goes... After a beat, she sees Jacob's wallet.
 Jacob, you forgot... She jumps out of bed, grabs the wallet and goes after him, but... it opens up and Winnie notices the picture inside. And she stops, staring at that picture. Her and her father on that white horse... taken years ago. A picture she knows she never gave to Jacob.
It's a complete unmitigated bloodbath out there. The S&P tried to rally at about 10am but it was met with yet another brutal wave of selling and people... we're now at our lows for the day, the week, the month and the year. Jacob looks up at ticker on the wall.
Suddenly...
Are you happy? He stands in the doorway holding a drink.
We're done. And Bretton CHUCKS the drink against the wall and the glass shatters. Jacob takes a step back. Bretton's in a complete state as he walks over to Jacob's desk and SWIPES it clean... papers flying about.
Finished... Now he picks up the chair...
Bank notices... ... throws it against the window... which cracks.
Margin calls... As he punches the monitor of Jacob's Bloomberg...
Redemptions... And Jacob just stands there... wide-eyed. Just looking at...
Face full of sweat... blood all over his hand... hair strewn about... completely out of breath... bloodshot red eyes... a beaten down mess of a man.
What happened to composure, Bretton?
Well, I suppose it went to hell with your fucking insurance stocks. And Bretton calms down, walks to the window.
It's not making sense to me anymore. The market always made sense to me and for the most part... I was better than it... quicker than it.
If I unwind the fund now I'll still walk with six hundred million or so. And Jacob's face falls... this is news to him.
What?
It's time to call it a day. Spend more time with my family. I suppose this moment comes for all of us.
You still have six hundred million? Bretton vacantly nods. And Jacob Moore... trying his best to hide his disappointment...
 That's a fortune. With a shrug...
I guess it's all relative. Bretton then takes a moment... confirming to himself that this is the right decision... then finally looks over to Jacob with...
And Jacob -- you're the worst portfolio manager I've ever seen.
He wants to close the fund... he wants to ride off into the fucking sunset...
Okay...
No, it's not okay... because we're so fucking close... and he's going to walk with six hundred million dollars and that's unacceptable. And Gordon sighs in defeat...
I don't know what to tell you, Pal. You wanted to make him bleed, I wanted my daughter back... As he walks...
... looks like life brings disappointment to us all. And Jacob... as he matches Gordon's stride... in a complete state.
What happened to slaughtering men, Gordon? What happened to turning them into penny-ante brokers in Poughkeepsie? Gordon stops walking.
Look at you. This can't possibly be the man my daughter fell in love with. Jacob turns away.
I want to finish the job.
Why?
Because nobody gave a shit about me before Andrew Zabel came along. Because he didn't deserve what he got.
The universe is an efficient market, Kid... we all get what we deserve.
Did you? Now it's Gordon who looks away.
I know you cared about him... and I know how that motivates. But Jacob... he wasn't such a Saint.
What's that supposed to mean?
You don't want to know. Jacob steps forward... shouting out after him...
I'm sorry she doesn't want anything to do with you, Gordon -- I'm sorry she doesn't love you! Gordon stops walking. Turns...
Okay Jake... you want to know. Jacob sharply nods.
Did you ever think about it? I mean really think about it? How someone could make money year after year... even through bear markets? Jacob just stands there... listening...
On November 15th, 1903 an Italian man arrived aboard the S.S. Vancouver in Boston. He had two dollars and fifty cents to his name. Yet just a few years later he was millionaire. You wanna know how? He had invented a scheme... it was quite simple actually. And Jacob now steps forward... piecing it together...
No...
He would get people to invest with him by offering larger than normal returns then pay the old investors with the new investors money. As long as there was fresh money, he could keep going. Do you know what his name was, Jacob? It was Charles...
Research facilities...
And scholarships...
And retirees...
All of them went to bed thinking they were perfectly fine... are going to wake up to find they're completely wiped out...
You're lying.
I'm not, Son. I wish I were. Jacob just stands there... stunned with what he's hearing.
See Jacob, you knew how to get that out of me. By playing me off of what I really want... my daughter back.
I know. But I do have something for you... And as Morgan Portfolio Manager leans forward in anticipation...
So I heard something earlier today...
It's so much better working out outdoors... that gym was so stuffy.
Not to mention expensive.
Right.
So, you've obviously heard the rumor? And Blogger looks over to Jacob... he hasn't.
I don't like unannounced visits.
United Bancorp is going under. Wells Fargo has stepped up but the offer is insanely low.
I know all this.
You still have the fund and you still have the leverage that comes with it. You want out of the game... buy a bank. Bretton skeptically regards Jacob.
Why are you doing this?
Because I got you into those insurance companies... because I let you down... And Bretton... biting his lip in thought...
I don't like the mortgage toxic waste. It can't be quantified... and it spreads...
I worked it out already. You wouldn't have to take it.
How'd you do that?
Well, Wells won't insure the Zabel institutional money. It's against their policy. And then...
I told them you would.
Then who would take on the mortgage securities?
Uncle Sam. Bretton slowly nods... taking all this in...
So, I'd get the bank, the KZI assets including the institutional fund yet none of the mortgage securities. As Jacob leans forward... going in for the kill...
You could actually own the bank your father toiled away at his whole career. Think about that, Bretton. Bretton just shakes his head.
We're going to lose our credit. I'm facing margin calls.
So in order to stay in the game... we need fresh money. Bretton nods...
 Oil's crashing. Jacob thinks for a moment, then...
And how much do we need?
Fifty, sixty million minimum... and that's just to hold off the current margin calls. And Bretton just sighs...
God, de-leveraging is a bitch. Standing...
Sit tight. I'm going to get us the money. And Jacob goes... Bretton calling out after him...
From who... ?
In large cut outs and piles on tables and in the store's windows. Jacob arrives at the end of the line... New York's newest best selling author is having a book signing.
I have a question... what exactly is "moral hazard?" With a smile...
Short version -- taking risks you're not accountable for with other people's money. And the next person steps up and hands Gordon a copy.
He's going for it. We're almost home. As he signs it...
There you go.
But he needs fresh money to serve the leverage. A hundred million. Gordon just shrugs.
I'm a writer now. We don't make that much. As the line of people holding their new books start to get impatient...
I know that, but I figured you might know how to get it. Handing Jacob back the signed copy...
Well, if you need money that badly, Jake... you might want to check closer to home. Off Jacob's confused reaction...
It's a lot.
How much?
I don't know, Jacob. I never really considered it mine.
But it is... right? It's your money? And she faces him... regarding his urgency...
 You might want to wipe some of the drool off your face...
I'm not kidding. This is important. As they continue to walk...
Yes, it's mine. When he went to prison, my father put a lot of money in our names. And when Rudy died it all became mine.
Let's say I can figure out a way for you to get it. Take a loan against it -- something like that. Will you do that for me?
Why are you doing this, Jacob? Jacob takes a moment... looking away with...
This is my only chance to make things right, Winnie. And she just regards him... not sure...
Gordon couldn't invest any of his money so he put most of it into the children's names with directions on how it was to be invested.
And how could Winnie get it now? Hadley stops walking and thinks about it.
Well, she'd have to sign a reversion of trust document. That way the funds would revert back to their pre-trust posture and regulations.
So all she has to do is sign a piece of paper?
Basically. As that registers...
How much is in there?
It's complicated. There's private equity ownership, real estate, a very large position in a bank... all sorts of investment vehicles.
Ballpark it for me.
I don't know. Assuming immediate liquidity... over three hundred million. And with that, Jacob sets to go. But...
Of course... Gordon would have to sign the document as well.
You also would need the trust's executor to sign it.
Jacob as he walks down 5th avenue...
Who is that?
Sammy Redding. He's a lifelong friend. It won't be a problem.
What about you?
I would love to sign it, Jacob. Consider it done. Walking down 5th avenue...
Thank you. Thank you, Gordon.
Just after you agree to two things.
Anything.
Before Bretton buys the bank, he must use all of Winnie's money and all the Locust Fund's leverage to go against the market. They're about to pass this bailout and I want to be on the other side of it.
But what about--
It's just for a few weeks then it's right back to our plan.
Okay.
As she starts to sign the forms... we're in...
Winnie finishes signing the forms then slides them back to Hadley who hands them to Gordon. Jacob takes her hand but she pulls it away. And after Gordon signs the papers, they all stand. Gordon just looks at Winnie, who's now looking back at him. Tears beginning to well. And he slowly opens his arms...
Winnie... come here... you're all I have left now. And she slowly walks over to him... to his embrace...
He was my only son. And I messed that up. I messed it all up, I know that. She's now crying.
But please... forgive me... And confirming through her tears...
You always get what you want, Dad. And Jacob Moore... witnessing this strange reunion... realizing how right she is...
 Okay, it looks like this bailout's going to pass...
 ... there's going to be an initial bounce...
 We're going to sell that bounce.
First we're going to unload all of our positions in the insurers.
Then we're going to go the other way... we're going to bet against this market... aggressively.
Against the S&P, the Nasdaq, the Dow...
... the financials, China, India, Brazil...
... the brokerages that are still left, all the froth from the last two years...
Gentlemen, anything that can be sold... we're going to sell. And as a circle is formed around the date of October 27th, we...
What? No market joke today? Diego just shrugs...
It stopped being funny. Jacob softly nods and heads on his way.
I thought you were in London. Jacob nods.
The United Bancorp deal is going to go through. I've begun unwinding all our positions.
But our deal with Gordon was that we have to stay short until November 5th. Bretton just looks at him.
What?
Jacob, Gordon redeemed all his money yesterday. We're clean with him. And this hits Jacob like a ton of bricks...
Is something wrong?
No. No, everything's great. Forcing out a smile...
Let's go buy a bank.
Thank you, he hasn't answered his phone and we're very worried. The landlord nods and unlocks the apartment door for them...
He played me... She joins his side...
He played us.
I don't give a shit about the money. And she turns to face him.
This is who he is. He sucks in a deep breath, then...
I lied to you. I contacted him. I spent time with him. Without you knowing.
I knew.
You knew?
I saw the picture in your wallet.
Then why didn't you say anything?
Because I wanted to give you a chance to say something first.
And because I desperately wanted to find something in you to believe in. (shaking her head in
But Jacob... you've become that exact thing I've been trying to master... ... and places it into his palm.
... you've become him.
It's completely legal, Jacob. The funds reverted back to the pre-trust posture... that means the money was technically Gordon's again. Hadley just shrugs...
But he's not allowed to trade.
He didn't trade.
He put the money into the hedge fund, that's considered capital investment.
Jacob, Gordon never put the money into a hedge fund. He simply took control of the bank.
Bank? What bank?
Hudson River. I told you about the position in the bank. Jacob's stunned...
Hudson River... ? I don't understand.
Well, Gordon had placed his Hudson River shares into the trust before he was convicted. You do know he started out there? A rental car parks out front of a small bank. Jacob emerges and heads for the bank...
Okay, then the trust aggressively acquired more shares about two years ago... enough to have a controlling position in the bank. And Jacob stops walking when he sees... a group of angry depositors forming outside and a sign hanging in the doorway... "Closed."
But how? Gordon wasn't allowed to control the trust.
That's right. All of the trust's moves were made by its executor.
Sammy Redding? Confused...
Sammy Redding? Who the hell is Sammy Redding?
So we're throwing Bretton's birthday party at Balmoral.
Well, we're very proud to have such a resounding success hail from these hallowed halls I assure you.
That's funny because he often speaks about his days here at Redmayne and Bentley... anyway, what I'm hoping you can help me with were records of his early trades. Years ago.
Of course... but it is against policy to allow just anyone to see those records.
I completely understand. How about this? I'll make you a trade.
... and I'll make sure Bretton gives your young brokers a speech that will blow them away.
Wow, Bretton -- you really kicked some ass for client forty one. Finally Jacob turns to the back of the ledger, to the client key, where he moves the pencil down to client #41 and it says... Gordon Gekko.
 Bud Fox wasn't the only one.
It's been a bitch of a month, my friend... tell me this visit does not bring bad news.
You want me to audit The Locust Fund?
That's right. I want you to tell Bretton you need the official records of all the fund's activity starting with when you gave him the original two hundred million. You need this because The Russian Federal Tax Service is up your ass and you have to play ball with them.
And if he declines... ?
You'll have no choice but to pull your money.
And why would I do that? And Jacob leans forward...
Because if you do this for me, Oleg, I'll teach you the Andrew Zabel magic. I'll explain to you, in detail, all of his techniques... I'll give you all his secrets... it's less complicated than you might think.
Hello... Okay, thank you. He moves to the curtains then opens them. And the daylight spills in.
All the Locust Fund's trades for the last two years. Jacob nods, placing them into his bag. And Oleg lights a cigarette... looks right at us... excited... leaning forward with...
Now give it to me. Let me behind the Andrew Zabel curtain...
They were working together. Your father and Bretton. Walking back into the apartment...
Jacob, what are you doing here? Following her in...
Gordon wanted the trust the whole time. And when I came to him seeking revenge... he saw his window. Upset, she looks for her keys.
I have to go to work.
Bretton owed him a favor because he fed your father information twenty three years ago when he was a young broker in London and your father never ratted him out. She just looks at him... shaking her head... and not in disapproval... but in pity. But he keeps going.
And he never put the money into Bretton's fund. Turns out your trust had built up a controlling position in Hudson River Bank.
That's the bank he worked at when I was born.
Well, now he owns it. Or shall I say pilfered it before he went AWOL.
Jesus... And Jacob confirms...
He saw this coming years ago... from his cell. I'm guessing he made off with billions. And he throws something on the table.
And now look?
He's in London... giving interviews and being hailed as a genius. Everyone's buying his book and waiting to see his next move. Desperately trying to get her mind around this...
But what about the SEC, the regulatory agencies-- ?
The government is flying this 700 billion dollar airplane by the seat of it's pants. They don't know where half of the fucking money is going. And even if they did, do you think they want this out there? As this all washes over her...
This is his revenge.
Yup... sure beats the hell out of insider trading, doesn't it? And Winnie finds her keys and heads for the door...
I can't hear anymore of this. ... but Jacob steps in front of her.
I'm done. I sold everything. The ring. Everything. I gave back the KZI bonus. I'm out and I'm broke and I deserve it. And she just looks at him...
But Winnie, the one thing I can't accept -- is losing you. And before she reacts...
Did you see Barrons?
You finally got the cover. Gordon nods.
Everybody thinks you got rich of betting against the system. If they only knew...
The powers that be will never let that happen. Jacob's not arguing it...
How much is enough, Gordon? Gordon laughs with a shake of the head.
I've been asked that before...
And when I get out... who's there waiting for me? Nobody.
You're not going to miss America?
I'll always have America... it's why I'm here. I'm buying the island.
I have a lot business abroad now. Interests in an Australian copper mine, a German solar company, some Russian oil pipelines, a casino in Macau... see Jake, America just isn't where the action is anymore.
What happened to the precious depreciating asset of time?
It still trades... And he turns to Jacob with a smile...
... but I'm a billionaire now, Pal.
I'm out, Gordon, I'm done trading.
I don't know why. You pulled it off, Kid, you took him down -- granted with my help -- but you atoned for Zabel's sins with Bretton's money.
Did you ever really want to reconcile with her?
 I'm human.
Then why did you do it? And Gordon... strongly holding Jacob's glare... simply replies...
Same answer.
But it didn't work. Gordon sadly shrugs...
I've been trying to wire two hundred million into her bank account but she won't accept it.
I know. She doesn't want it... we don't want it.
That sounds good. I bet you can even wrap it in a pretty red bow. But Champ, it's idealistic... and idealism kills every trade.
See Jacob -- the hustle we all fall for is actually thinking we can fight what's inherent, what's inevitable... that we can somehow undo what genetics, or God, or whatever name you wanna tag it, has placed deep inside of us. Because whether it's greed or revenge or the compulsion to chase... it all amounts to the same thing... loss of control. And it's always going to be there and it's always going to be stronger than you, Pal. Now walking again...
It's why bubbles will always exist and it's why we're all currently in this mess. Joining Gordon's stride...
Winnie's pregnant. And Gordon stops walking.
It's going to be a boy.
What do you want?
It's bad out there, Gordon, people are panicked. They're not looking to their government. They're not looking to their trusted advisors. They're looking to you.
You want me to buy? And Jacob Moore... slowly confirming...
Publicly and aggressively. Gordon just looks at him.
But they're all lemmings. Simple psychology. You once said every crash should have a JP Morgan to step in and save it.
We're far from the bottom. It'll be a dead cat bounce.
It'll buy us time. That's all I'm asking for... time.
What do I get in return?
Full clemency.
You can offer that?
Your daughter can. She works with the new Secretary of Treasury now. Considering that...
What else?
Winnie. Me. Your grandson. Something money can't buy... a family. And Gordon looks at him for the longest moments, allowing it all to register, then...
Sorry son -- that's simply a trade I cannot make. And as Gordon Gekko walks off... leaving Jacob Moore behind...
You wanna know what the mother of all bubbles was? Us. The human race. Scientists call it the Cambrian Explosion, from the Cambrian fauna.
It happened 530 million years ago... when all of the sudden, there was the seemingly rapid appearance of most major groups of complex animals. And as they embrace...
And from it was born humanity.
It was an explosion of life. Scientists will tell you it was unprecedented, excessive and by the standards of evolution-time... happened in a flash. The City of London outside the large windows...
Suddenly the world had millions of new species... just like that. This will be the home of his new international empire.
See -- bubbles are the purest form of Darwinism. ... looking over pages and pages of destruction... Andrew Zabel's legacy that he now has to pay for...
They teach us what we didn't know and they remind us of what we forgot... And Bretton completely loses it... just starts ripping out the pages then tearing them in two...
They kill excess and they lean out the herd. ... methodically... page by page... over and over again...
They actually bring us back to the necessary simple...
Because Jacob... As the door opens, daylight spills in and we see the charging bull of Bowling Green Park across the way... Gordon is escorted out of the car and led to the doors of the New York stock exchange. And Gordon stops at the famed doors, takes a moment to regard the exchange, sucks in a deep breath, readies for his hero's welcome and finally... opens the doors then disappears inside.
... you'd be amazed what can rise from the ashes.
