--addressing the United Nations today, the President expressed his concern over the increasingly intense territorial disputes in both Asia and the Middle East. CUT TO: The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES--
The sound of a bullet at one end of the world echoes across the ocean to the other end. Armed conflict is not self contained in its respective region--the consequences reverberate through every nation across the world and therefore must be avoided at all costs. CUT BACK TO: The Anchorwoman--
While the President's position was clear, he did not comment on whether or not he would order Dr. Manhattan into action should the situation continue to escalate. CUT TO: Stock footage of DR. MANHATTAN--a man, at least he appears to be, who has glowing blue skin. The stock footage shows Dr. Manhattan flying through the air as a MISSILE heads straight for him.
With a wave of his hand, Dr. Manhattan stops the missile in its flight--frozen in mid-air--inches from his face. With another wave, Dr. Manhattan DETONATES the missile. Dr. Manhattan disappears in the EXPLOSION . but once the smoke clears, we see he's still there. Unscathed-- --Blake snorts at the stock footage, changes the channel-- CRASH!--The FRONT DOOR EXPLODES, splintered by a KICK; Blake jumps up, immediately at the ready-- --when we see the INTRUDER'S FEET entering. Slowly. Blake sees the Intruder's face, though we never do--we only see that he's dressed in ALL BLACK, including GLOVES and a KNIT HAT. A look of recognition comes over Blake.
Just a matter of time, I suppose. With sudden, blinding speed, Blake WHIPS the SAUCER from under his cup, sending it FLYING like a saw-blade. The Intruder BATS IT out of the air with even quicker reflexes, but the act buys Blake time to pull a PISTOL with a SILENCER from a hollowed out STEREO SPEAKER. He's a pro . but so is our Intruder. Before Blake can get a shot off, the Intruder is already upon him, SNATCHING the gun out of Blake's hand-- --Blake PUNCHES the Intruder in the chest plate--the Intruder drops the gun. Blake fights. Not like an old man, but like the trained killer he is. But the Intruder is much, much faster. Younger. Deadlier. He SMASHES Blake with an elbow to the head. Blake falls. BLOOD blurs his vision. The Intruder picks Blake up off the ground. Brings him to the window with the great New York view. Thirty stories up. Blake looks the Intruder in the eye . and starts laughing. Hysterical.
I always thought I knew the punchline. But I guess the joke's on me now. He laughs. The INTRUDER seems to regard Blake a moment-- --then, with incredible strength, he LIFTS BLAKE OVER HIS HEAD AND THROWS BLAKE THROUGH THE WINDOW. Blake never makes a sound as he plummets to the sidewalk.
Hey! This is still a goddamn crime scene!
It's been over four hours, I got a business to run-- As they argue, we're back following the happy face pin, as the water carries it to a DRAIN-- --when someone picks the pin up. We're in this person's POV as he studies the pin for a moment before pocketing it. We never see his face. We move from his POV-- --to across the street, arriving at a NEWS STAND. People at the news stand stare at. the crime scene. At the cop still arguing with the shopkeeper, the patrol cars, the yellow tape. At the MEDICAL EXAMINER zipping up Blake's BODY BAG. Other people at the news stand ignore the scene and peruse the magazines and periodicals, most of which have inflammatory headlines regarding the tense atmosphere currently in the world--a Newsweek headline reads "War?", The New York Times: "China Moves Battleships near Taiwanese Waters," The New York Post, over a PHOTO of the President with Dr. Manhattan: "What Me Worry?" The NEWS VENDOR notices a MAN frowning at the papers.
 Depressing ain't it?
But good for business, right?
Yeah. Irony's a bitch. The man pays for a newspaper when A HOMELESS MAN taps the News Vendor on the shoulder.
The current issue of The New Frontiersman, where is it?
It's late this month.
When will it be here?
I dunno, pal, like I said, it's late-- We MOVE BACK ACROSS THE STREET, to Blake's apartment building, then MOVE UP the building, to the broken glass window Blake was thrown out of. We MOVE INTO THE WINDOW--
Edward Blake--63 years old, six-two, 225. A solid 225, guy was built like a linebacker. This is plate glass too, you'd have to step on the gas just to put a crack in this. Had to be a two man job. At least. You check the bedroom?
Drawers were open, tossed through. Mattress flipped.
Robbery?
Or made to look like one.  Found that in the bedroom. Det. Fine studies it. It's Blake's UNITED NATIONS ID. It reads "Special Advisor, United States."
You see this? He picks up a PHOTO from the floor, hands it to Fine.
Shaking hands with the President.
You're saying this guy was a spook? You think this might be a political murder?
I think that this is way bigger than the both of us. He leaves Det. Fine to ponder this.
Rorschach's Journal, October 12th. Earlier today I came across what appeared to be a suicide. It was later learned to be a homicide. Someone's time was up. Still in POV, we see the person pull something from his pocket--the happy face pin. We realize that this was the person whose POV we were in earlier.
I discovered a clue. Something I recognized. And suddenly, unexpectedly . I heard my own clock ticking. We move out of the POV and see our guy for the first time-- RORSCHACH --a masked vigilante who wears a trench coat, fedora, and a silver-white MASK with oily BLACK SPOTS moving about, creating shifting, doubled PATTERNS like a Rorschach test. Scary looking. Rorschach draws a hydraulic GRAPPLING GUN from his coat, and FIRES the HOOK AND CABLE THIRTY STORIES UP where it latches itself through Blake's broken window. Pressing RETRACT, Rorschach FLIES UP THE WALL to the 30th floor.
You sure it wasn't the wind?
Nah, I definitely heard something.
I tell ya, I'd rather do traffic duty than be posted at a crime scene all night. Watch the door. Cop 1 pulls his gun, going through the motions rather than being concerned. He then enters the bedroom. Cop 2 stands guard, nervous From the bedroom:
Clear! I'm checking the other rooms. Cop 2 relaxes a bit, turns-- --and comes face to "face" with Rorschach, standing inches away. The Cop's face goes slack with childish terror. He goes to yell but Rorschach raises two fingers, "Shhh"-- The fingers JAB INTO THE COP'S WINDPIPE. The cop HISSES and falls silently as Rorschach brushes past him like a whisper.
See, the Comedian thought he had it all worked out.
He was young and arrogant, but what he lacked in experience, he made up for in . tenacity. As he speaks, we PAN ACROSS various FRAMED MEMORABILIA: The first is a NEWSPAPER CLIPPING dated 1958: MYSTERIOUS MASKED MAN CLEANS UP WHARFS--the caption underneath reads "Hero Calls Himself The Nite Owl."
Guess I was that way too, when I started. I'll never know what possessed me to put that mask on the first time.
It started with the villains, y'know, people forget that. Pirate outfits, ghosts. Gangs that thought it was funny to dress up and pull heists, crap like that. PAN ACROSS: Another FRAMED CLIPPING, dated 1962: NITE OWL FORMS WATCHMEN--COSTUMED HEROES COMBINING FORCES! "'We're going to clean up this town!' Says costumed crusader."
So a few cops, we decide it might be funny to mask up too. Be anonymous. Take these guys on at the street level, right? Then the media got wind, ran with it, turned it into a whole different beast. PAN ACROSS: A GOLD STATUE of NITE OWL in his Sixties-era costume. The plaque below reads: IN GRATITUDE, 1969. Another clipping: "Hero Retires, Reveals Identity In Tell All Book." Finally, we come to HOLLIS MASON , 70s, though his eyes sparkle with strength and his face still shows the edges of a born hero. The TV is on in the background.
Superheroes, Supervillians--you know who I ran into the other day at the market? The Screaming Skull. We chatted for a while. Turns out he's a born again.
No way. We see who Hollis is speaking to--DAN DREIBERG (the second Nite Owl), late 30's, handsome, though he's let himself go the past few years--his edges have gone soft. He was in the photo of the new Watchmen in Blake's apartment.
All the nuts that started popping up, I'll tell ya. Who was that midget you and your partner chased down years ago? What'd he call himself?
The Big Figure.
Big Figure. A midget bad guy. Guess it doesn't get lower than that, does it? Hollis laughs at his own joke; Dan chuckles, polite.
 Wow, it's really late. Dan stands, finishes his beer. Hollis sees him to the door.
Well, even though I spent my time catching real bad guys, you were still a better Nite Owl than I ever was.
That's bullshit, Hollis, and you know it. They hug.
With all this talk of war, all that's going on in the world, it's a shame the government forced all you guys out. Before Dan can answer he notices a breaking news report on the TV:
This just in--masked vigilante Rorschach has assaulted a New York City police officer who was guarding a crime scene in the early morning hours. Rorschach is on the FBIs ten most wanted list for violation of the Keene Act, which banned masked heroes ten years ago. Dan and Hollis watch as an image of Rorschach flashes on screen.
Well, forced all of you guys out except one.
Move your leg.
What?
I said move, dick. Dan finally realizes what he's talking about. Dan meets his eyes, for just a moment and draws back his leg. The Gang Members snicker at Dan as they pass.
Rorschach. Rorschach sits at the table, mask half up, eating a cold CAN
Hello Daniel. I helped myself to some beans. You don't mind?
No, of course not. You uh, want me to heat some up for you?
No need.
Rorschach finishes the can of beans, stands, pulls his mask back down. There's a strong familiarity between the two but at the same time, Dan is wary.
You were on the news. They say you attacked a cop.
Minor wound. Won't need hospitalization.
Other than that . How have you been keeping?
Out of prison. So far. Look at this. He tosses Blake's happy face pin onto the table. Dan picks it up, runs his fingers over the RED-BROWN SPLOTCH.
This little stain, is that bean juice or--
Human bean juice. It belonged to the Comedian. He's dead.
The Comedian? Nervous now, Dan glances out the window. DAN Let's talk downstairs.
How did it happen?
Murder. Someone threw him out a window.
Maybe it was a burglary. The killer might not have known who Blake was.
An ordinary burglar? Kill the Comedian? Ridiculous.
You're right. I heard he was working for the government. Maybe it was a political killing.
Maybe. Or maybe someone's decided to kill off costumed heroes.
You don't think that's . a little paranoid?
Is that what they're saying about me now? That I'm paranoid?
I-'m just saying the Comedian made a lot of enemies over the years, even amongst his friends, if he had any. The man wasn't exactly endearing. Just because something happened to him doesn't mean it involves us.
One of our own has been murdered. I thought you might be interested. An attack on one is an attack on all of us, right? Dan hesitates.
I'm out, Rorschach. I've been out, we've all been out. Except you. You know that.
Yes. I know that. Anyways, I thought I'd let you know. Just in case.
Yeah, thanks. You can take the tunnel out to the warehouse on Fleet street-- Rorschach turns to walk off down a long, dark TUNNEL.
I remember. Used to come here a lot. Back when we were partners.
Yeah. Those were good times, Rorschach. Great times.  What ever happened to them?
You quit. Rorschach disappears into the SUBWAY TUNNEL, leaving Dan to reminisce alone. Dan glances at his old costume hanging.
So tell me what you wanna do. Sir.
Seeing that I don't have to be back to base till Friday--everything. He puts a stack of BILLS on the dresser. Then takes his UNIFORM off like he can't wait. The Hooker gets on top of him- --when the DOOR FLIES OFF THE HINGES. Rorschach steps in, yanks the Hooker off-- --the officer gets to his feet, throws a punch, which Rorschach dodges. Rorschach GRABS the guy's arm, then KICKS the Officer on the side of his KNEE, tearing the joint to shreds. The Officer cries out in pain, falls to the floor-- Rorschach nails him in the head with a BLACK JACK, knocking him out. The Hooker screams. Rorschach grabs her by the hair and SLAMS her face into the wall.
Quiet, whore.
Nose broken and bleeding, the Hooker quiets to a whimper. Rorschach takes the officer's uniform and ID. Then leaves.
I'm here to see Adrian Veidt.
Do you have an appointment?
No, uh, just tell him Dan Dreiberg is here to see him.
I'm sorry, Mr. Veidt doesn't see anyone without an appointment.
I understand, but if you would just tell Adrian that Dan Dreiberg is here, I'm an old friend.
Well, Mr. Veidt is very busy at the
Just tell him I'm here. I assure you he'll see me. Dan glares at her. She glares right back. A game of chicken. She reluctantly gets up, goes inside the office. Once she's gone, Dan's glare disappears, replaced by nervousness. Because he's not sure if Adrian will see him-- it's been a long time. He glances at the SECURITY GUARDS eyeing him. Finally, the Assistant returns.
Go on in, Mr. Dreiberg.
Mr. Veidt, would you acknowledge that you are considered the world's smartest man?
If we could move off the subject of business for a moment, I'm curious whether the world's smartest man thinks we're headed for our next World War. Adrian stops the treadmill, towels off as he heads to Dan.
Predicting stock prices isn't the same as predicting world events. I hope there isn't a war, or even a skirmish for that matter. Because Veidt Enterprises has some exciting plans, plans that will, pardon the cliche, truly make this world a better place. My team of engineers and scientists have been working with Dr. Manhattan himself on synthesizing a new, cheap form of energy which will eliminate the worlds reliance on fossil fuels with no toxic emissions. This energy could power cars, aircrafts, stadiums--there are no limitations-- 
--but I talk too much. Will you mind pausing the interview a moment, Doug? A good friend of mine is here. Doug Roth leaves. Adrian hugs Dan, despite the sweat.
You look good, Adrian.
Dan--it's been far too long.
Rorschach. He paid me a visit too.
He did? Must've been tough to get past your security, even for him. I thought your assistant was going to take me out.
You're the world's smartest man, Adrian. You tell me.
Rorschach's a sociopath suffering through nostalgia. I revealed my identity to the public as soon as the Keene Act was passed. If an old enemy wanted me dead it would have been done already. Adrian notices the news on one of his TV projectors. Something about Pakistan putting troops along the Indian border. Adrian turns up the volume, looking grim.
No, there are other things in the world I'm far more concerned about. ON THE WALL: The TV projector shows an image of TWO PAKISTANI SOLDIERS on patrol.
We should attack the Indian bastards. I don't understand-- CUT TO: POV--a SNIPER SCOPE, locked in on the Pakistani soldier.
 --their blue abomination to intervene. And we don't want that. At the same time, we can't assume to know what's on the minds of our enemies. We're in Chinese waters, off the coast of Taiwan. The CHINESE CAPTAIN and his First Mate look out at the water. TAIWANESE GUNBOATS can be seen in the distance.
Is Dr. Manhattan even real?
Why don't you ask the Vietnamese. Or the Iraqis? Dr. Manhattan is real. Thank god for that.
We move into Rorschach's POV as he approaches the gate. The guard has no reaction to Rorschach-- --because Rorschach is in disguise, wearing the Army Officer's uniform he stole. Rorschach presents his ID. The Guard waves him through.
Good evening, Rorschach. --and we see DR. MANHATTAN  for the very first time. He is SIXTY FEET TALL, BLUE LIGHT ripples from his skin, emanating pure power--he is God on earth. He works on a reactor--telekinetically moving parts in the air-- not even looking at Rorschach. It's as if Dr. Manhattan already knew he was coming.
Dr. Manhattan. Dr. Manhattan continues about his business when his girlfriend, LAURIE JUPITER, 30, very much in her prime, enters from the other end.
Jon, did you say some--Rorschach: What are you doing here? You're a wanted man.
Nice to see you too, Silk Spectre.
Don't call me that. My mother made me take that name. I always hated it.
Sorry, Miss Jupiter. I thought I should tell you the bad news--the Comedian has been murdered.
Yes, since he and I are the only two extranormal operatives currently employed by the government, I was informed. The CIA suspects one of the radical Islamic groups. Dr. Manhattan shrinks from sixty to six feet in size. He speaks in a cold, even, matter of fact manner.
I have my own theories. But neither of you seem too concerned.
A live human body and a dead human body have the same number of particles. Structurally there's no difference.
Well, I might not be able to count molecules, but either way, Blake was a bastard. You know he tried to rape my mother?
Sounds like you may have had a score to settle. You or your mother.
What? Are you accusing--
Rorschach, please don't upset Laurie. I
He pauses as if he hears something.
Excuse me for a moment. Suddenly he disappears.
--when suddenly Dr. Manhattan materializes in a blue flash, floating in mid-air. The Middle Eastern Men shield their eyes from the light, then realize in awe and fear
These men were transporting a shipment of enriched uranium-- With a gesture, the container floats off the truck and separates into pieces . . revealing the URANIUM inside. Suddenly the uranium changes--
I've safely transformed the uranium into sand. I trust you can take things from here. And just like that he disappears--
--I'm not here to judge the moral discrepancies of a man who died in service of his country.
You call rape a moral discrepancy?!
Rorschach--you're upsetting Laurie. I think you ought to go.
I came here to warn you both, just like I warned Adrian and Dan. I believe someone may be targeting masked heroes--
I said you ought to go.
It took a lot of effort to get in here. I'm not leaving before I've-- With a look, Dr. Manhattan makes Rorschach disappear.
--had my say Rorschach realizes what just happened. Checks himself, his surroundings. Reorients himself. With nothing else he can do, he heads down the road.
He's gone. Are you okay now?
 Are you okay, Jon? Dr. Manhattan pauses for a moment, thoughtful.
I'm having trouble with my vision. I can't see clearly what lies ahead. There's some static interference.
Interference? Caused by what?
I'm uncertain. A power surge of great magnitude? Perhaps a nuclear detonation.
More war talk. I can't deal with this. I don't want to think about the future right now.
There's no such thing as the "future." I've explained to you on many occasions--
--that time is simultaneous. There's no past to travel back to, no future to travel forward to, everything happens all at once, our actions affect the course of time instantly, yes I know.
I understand your frustration, Laurie. The human mind for some reason is only capable of viewing time frame by frame. Perhaps you'd find it more comforting if you could perceive time as I do Dr. Manhattan touches her head--
She comes upon the kitchen door, ajar. She can see her PARENTS inside, arguing--
Jon, stop!
I didn't mean to upset you.
I know. I think I've been cooped up on this base for too long. Rorschach mentioned Dan Dreiberg--we haven't seen him in years. Maybe we can give him a call, see if he's available for dinner tonight.
You go ahead, Laurie. I want to further investigate this interference with my vision. I find it troubling.
Going somewhere, Miss Jupiter?
Out.
I'll have a car brought around in a few minutes.
No, thank you. I called a cab already-- it's waiting for me outside. She tries to walk past but Agent Forbes steps in front of her.
You look quite nice. Who are you meeting?
An old friend of mine. And of Dr. Manhattan's. Now step out of my way.
Please keep in mind, Ms. Jupiter, that your boyfriend is this country's most valuable asset. You need to keep him happy. And on our side. Laurie glares at him.
Yes, sir. She brushes past him as she leaves.
You remember that crazy guy, what did he call himself . Captain Carnage! Pretended to be a supervillian just so he could get beat up all the time?
Yeah, he tried that with me once. I just walked away but he starts following me down the street in broad daylight yelling, "punish me! punish me!"
Uh, well, he pulled that on Rorschach and Rorschach dropped him down an elevator shaft. They look at each other, serious, then explode in laughter.
Sorry, sorry, that's not funny. I can't remember the last time I laughed like this. It feels good. Dan looks at her as she finishes her coffee. We can see he's smitten with her and that he probably has been for years. Laurie seems oblivious.
It's great seeing you again, Laurie.
Yeah, this was fun. The WAITER arrives with the check; Laurie grabs it.
You sure I can't get that?
Let me put my expense account to use. You can thank Uncle Sam.
Laurie nods out the window. Dan turns and sees a GOVERNMENT SEDAN parked outside.
They've been watching the whole time?
Just making sure I'm not doing anything that might upset the country's most powerful weapon.
How is Jon, by the way?
I really don't know. It's been harder and harder to tell over the years. It's like his emotions are slowly eroding. To be honest, I can't tell if he even cares about me anymore. They're quiet a moment. Laurie glances at her watch.
I should get back.
Y1 know, when I think back, why did we do it? Why did we dress up like that? I think the Keene Act was the best thing to ever happen to us.
You're probably right.
I mean, you remember my costume? All that tight spandex? That was awful.
Uh, yeah. Awful.
And to think my own mother pushed me into that spandex. Pushed me into the whole costume thing in the first place. Wanted her little girl to be just like mommy and fight bad guys.
We'll do this again.
Yeah. I'd really like that. Laurie crosses the street and gets into the sedan. As Dan watches the car drive off, TWO KIDS nearly bump into him, running around playing. The Kids make flying noises.
I'm Dr. Manhattan, saving the Twin Towers!
No, I wanna be Dr. Manhattan!
You can take turns, okay? Dan watches the Kids for a moment, then walks away. The Twin Towers looming behind him.
Laurie? Is that you?
I'd figure you'd be used to traveling that way by now.
Well, I'm not. I hate it when Jon teleports me.
Margarita?
No. Sally pours herself a margarita from a pitcher on the counter. We see photos, remnants of Sally from her crimefighting days around the condo. Under the pitcher of margaritas is a days old LA Times with the headline: "Dr. Manhattan Intercepts Terrorists At Port."
It's Eddie Blake's funeral today, isn't it? Laurie nods. (From here on, intercut between Blake's funeral and Sally's condo) FUNERAL: Blake's coffin is removed from the hearse.
Finally got his punchline, I guess. Poor Eddie.
Poor Eddie? How can you say that? After what he--
Laurie, you're still young. You don't understand how things change as time goes by. FUNERAL: Blake's coffin is carried past Adrian, Dan and Dr. Manhattan.
Another lesson on time passing. Y'know, you and Jon should get together and write a book on the subject. Sally reaches into a drawer and pulls out the old photo of the Watchmen, the same one with Blake and Hollis Mason in it.
That leaves just two of the old team left. Me and Hollis Mason. She stops at Blake in the photo, regarding him.
Eddie was the Comedian. He always thought he'd get the last laugh. As the PRIEST speaks, we move down the row of mourners, stopping at Dr. Manhattan looking thoughtfully into Blake's
Fireworks. A young Blake sits in a derelict Saigon bar, mean drunk. His face is devoid of his trademark scar.
You'd think this country'd had enough goddamn fireworks. If we'd've lost this war, I think it might have driven us crazy, y'know? As a country. But we didn't. Thanks to you.
You sound bitter.
Me? I think it's hilarious.
Mr. Eddie? They both turn. A pretty VIETNAMESE GIRL stands in the door. She's pregnant, just starting to show.
Fantastic. Just what I need.
The war is over now. We must talk.  About this.
Blake SLAMS his glass down. He glares at her, drunk and dangerous.
There's nothing to talk about cuz I'm leaving. I'm gonna forget you and your horrible, sweaty little country. He turns away. Her eyes blaze with betrayal and hatred.
No. You will remember. You will remember me and my country forever. She SMASHES a bottle. Blake turns just as the broken SHARDS SLASH HIS FACE, slicing him his jagged scar
You bitch! My face! He PUSHES HER into the bar and DRAWS HIS PISTOL--
Blake . don't. BLAM! Blake shoots her; the Girl SLAMS against the far wall. She drops, dead.
Blake. She was pregnant. You gunned her down. Blake turns on him, spitting fury.
That's right! And you know what? You watched me! You could've changed the gun into steam or the bullets into mercury or the bottle into snowflakes, but you didn't, did you? You're drifting outta touch, Doc--I've seen it. Don't tell me the war got to you. Blake walks off shouting "Medic!" Dr. Manhattan turns to the girl's body and regards it, curious. MATCH CUT TO:
This is all bullshit. Dan, fit and trim in full Nite Owl regalia, attends the meeting of the "new" Watchmen. Rorschach is there, as is a teenage Laurie, dressed in her tight spandex costume. Dr. Manhattan, his age unchanged, stands with his girlfriend JANEY SLATER, though he casts occasional glances at young Laurie . who definitely glances back. Dan also pays Laurie attention, but she is oblivious. A younger Adrian, dressed as Oxymandias, leads the meeting.
What are you saying, Comedian? Blake, now in his forties, smokes a CIGAR, feet on the table, a FLASK in hand. The PAPER in his hand reads: "Arab Leaders Call Dr. Manhattan: 'America's Weapon of Satan."'
What I'm saying is this whole bringing back the Watchmen thing is bullshit. It didn't work twenty years ago, and it ain't gonna work just because you want to keep on playing Cowboys and Indians.
Maybe we should agree on no drinking at meetings. Look, Rorschach and I have made real headway on the gang problem by pooling our efforts. Rorschach's voice is quiet, not yet its tortured rasp.
That's true. But something like this seems too big. Too bureaucratic.
Bureaucracies can be effective with the right leadership--
And that would be you, right Veidt? I mean you're the "smartest guy in the world," right?
It doesn't take a genius to see that the world has problems.
But it takes a roomful of morons to think they're small enough for you guys to handle. You people are a joke. You hear Moloch's back in town and get your panties in a bunch. You think that matters?
Of course it does. Justice matters.
Justice. Hilarious. There's no such thing as justice. He stands, moving to Adrian's DISPLAY which outlines the Watchmen's agenda: GANGS, RACKETEERING, DRUGS. Blake flicks his ZIPPO and the display GOES UP IN FLAMES.
My display .
Justice doesn't matter, alright? Because twenty years from now we're all gonna be dust. Mankind's been trying to kill each other off since the beginning of time and now we finally got the power to finish the job. Ain't nothin' gonna matter when the nukes start flying, and I promise you they will. Then Ozymandias here is gonna be the smartest man on the cinder. He sneers and walks out. Silence. Uncomfortable in the wake of truth, the others pack up to go, muttering apologies to Adrian, but Adrian ignores them, staring at the flames flickering across his face. He seems more thoughtful than upset. MATCH CUT TO:
Dan, in costume, pilots the ship. The Comedian stands outside the ship, in one of the "owl eyes," wielding a MACHINE GUN.
EMPTY_LINE
Crawl back in yer holes before you get hurt! I got rubber bullets!
Okay, that's how you wanna do it?! Smiling grimly, he FIRES TEAR GAS CANNISTERS INTO THE CROWD.
Oh God. 
Comedian, this is a nightmare! The whole city is erupting!
Hah! You seen this? The smoke clears enough for Dan to see a message SPRAY- PAINTED on a brick wall: "WHO WATCHES THE WATCHMEN?"
How long can we keep this up?
My government contacts tell me they're pushing some new bill through Congress.
Until then, we're society's only protection.
Protection from what? Blake laughs, exultant in the blowing smoke, the chaos.
Are you kidding? From themselves. CLOSE ON: the happy face pin on Blake's costume. MATCH CUT TO-
Lord have mercy upon us. Amen. Dan DROPS the pin into Blake's grave. The mourners linger a moment as dirt is shoveled onto Blake's casket, then start filing out. We follow one particular mourner all the way in the back--a LONE MAN, as he walks away.
Edgar William Jacobi. Also known as Edgar William Vaughn. Also known as William Edgar Bright. Also known as Moloch.
What are you talking about? I'm a retired business maaAAAHHH!
Rorschach TWISTS the man's arm back viciously.
Lie again, I'll break your arm.
Oh God, please. I did my time. I'm not Moloch anymore. What do you want from me? Rorschach lets him go. Moloch's hollow eyes follow him.
You attended a funeral today. Why?
The funeral? I don't know why I went. I just felt I should. I'd been thinking about the Comedian-- Rorschach SLAMS Moloch against the wall.
How did you know Blake was the Comedian?
He broke in here! A week ago! He, he had his mask off. He was drunk--
You were enemies for forty years. Why would he visit you?
I don't know! I woke up in my bedroom and there he was! He was upset! Crying!
The Comedian? Crying?
He, he was babbling, not making sense. I was pissing in my pants--I thought he was going to kill me!
What did he say?!
He said he was wrong. About it all being a joke, that it wasn't funny anymore. He said he was scared--
Scared of what?!
Something he saw, I think. He said something about wishing he never broke into that building. But that he had to keep his mouth shut. Then, then he left! Rorschach studies Moloch a moment, then releases him.
Hm. Funny story. Sounds unbelievable. Probably true. Rorschach glances around the kitchen. He opens some drawers, looking inside. He picks up a stack of MAIL, flips through it. One of the envelopes contains a PENSION CHECK from "Pyramid Industries."
So that's it? I'm clean?
Clean? I searched your house. Found illegal drugs.
Illegal--I don't use drugs. Rorschach pulls a PILL BOTTLE from his coat.
Laetril. Phony medication made from apricot pits. Illegal.
oh c-come on. Look, please don't confiscate that. I'm trying anything . I have cancer.
What kind of cancer?
The kind you don't get better from.
Fine. You're off the hook, for now. If you remember anything else, leave me a note in the trash can opposite the Gunga Diner at Fortieth and Seventh. Keep out of trouble, Moloch.
Rorschach's Journal, October 17th. Thought about Moloch's story on my way to the cemetery. Could all be lies. A scheme for revenge planned during his years behind bars. CUT WIDE: To reveal he is actually PERCHED ATOP AN ELEVATED SUBWAY CAR. Just one way he gets around.
But if it's true, then what? What could have possibly scared the Comedian? What building was he talking about? What was it that he saw? So many questions.
Edward Blake--the Comedian. Born 1944, buried in the rain. Murdered. FLASH TO: Blake, the night of his murder, turning as his door is kicked in.
Violent lives ending violently. FLASH TO: Adrian's display burning.
Blake understood. Humans are violent in nature. No matter how much you try to dress it up, to disguise it. FLASHES OF: The group photo of the old Watchmen. Then the photo of the new Watchmen.
Blake saw the true face of human kind and chose to become a parody of it, treated it like a joke. FLASHES OF: Blake being beaten in his apartment.
I heard a joke once. Man goes to a doctor, says he's depressed. Life seems harsh and cruel. Blake is KICKED in the stomach.
Says he feels all alone in a threatening world. Blake stands alone in the blowing tear gas smoke.
Doctor says, "the treatment is simple. The great clown Pagliacci is in town tonight. Go and see him. That should pick you up." Blake is lifted up by the Intruder's hands.
The man bursts into tears. A bloodied Blake laughs at the Intruder.
"But doctor," he says. ULTRA-SLOW, Blake crashes through his apartment window.
"I am Pagliacci." Blake FLIES TOWARD FRAME on his silent trip to the ground.
Good joke. Everybody laugh. Blake FALLS INTO FRAME--GO BLACK .
Mmm. What time do you have to be at your TV interview?
Don't worry, we have plenty of time.
Eyes still closed, she does not see a THIRD BLUE HAND trace a line down her cheek. She kisses it.
Hey, your finger, it's like licking a battery. It's all-- She opens her eyes. They widen in shock and horror as she sees TWO DR. MANHATTANS in bed with her.
Oh God! That's horrible! Stop it! Laurie jumps up. The two Dr. Manhattans stand, confused.
I'm sorry, I--You startled me, that's all
Forget about it. I overreacted. It was just strange to see-- Laurie can now see into the KITCHEN, where yet a THIRD DR. MANHATTAN is working on an experiment. Her eyes blaze.
How long have you been working in here?
Understand!? You're working in here at the same time we're in bed!?
Shut up! Just SHUT YOUR MOUTH! Laurie WHIPS a full BEAKER at 3's chest. It PASSES THROUGH HIM and SMASHES IN THE KITCHEN SINK. Laurie storms out.
Human emotion? You were human once. That's the problem, Jon. You've forgotten that.
--no one's fired their weapons yet, but no one's lowered them either. Maybe these other countries aren't so afraid of Dr. Manhattan, maybe they're calling the President's bluff. I'm very curious to see what Dr. Manhattan himself has to say in his live interview which should be in about an hour or so BOOM, BOOM! Dan looks up. Someone's banging on the door. Hard.
Who is it?
It's Laurie.
Laurie? It takes a few moments for him to open the door.
Sorry, I had a new lock installed, it's a little sticky--
I left Jon.
Did, uh, the Secret Service follow you here?
I lost them in the subways. I think.
I'm really sorry, Laurie.
Living with him . Dan, you don't know what it's been like. INTERCUT TO: Dr. Manhattan, holding Laurie's BRA. Staring.
The way he looks at things, like he can't remember what they are, like he doesn't really care. This world, the real world to him it's like walking through mist, and all the people are just shadows. Shadows in the fog. Dr. Manhattan lowers his head. A SHADOW FALLS OVER HIM. He looks up to see a THREE PIECE SUIT floating before him-- waiting for its wearer.
I hope I didn't ruin your night.
Not at all. I was just going to see Hollis for our weekly beer session. You're more than welcome to join. In fact, I insist They pass the news stand from the opening scene. The Homeless Man is arguing with the News Vendor:
--I told you, this month's issue still hasn't arrived yet! Why do you care about that right wing rag so much? Cuz those bastards don't give a damn about you, pal! They--hold up, here it comes. They turn as SEYMOUR, a fat slob of a man, arrives with a BUNDLE of the latest issue of "The New Frontiersman." CUT TO: Dr. Manhattan stepping THROUGH and INTO the empty, floating suit. His TIE knots itself. Dr. Manhattan looks around the empty room . sad? Again, he looks at the photo of him and Janey Slater . . then
Laurie, will you please stop apologizing? I'm here for you anytime. SHADOWS trail behind them, ominous. Someone's following.
I know. I just find it rude when people show up at your door--
--completely out of the blue. Suddenly, Dr. Manhattan appears in a burst of energy. The receptionist SHRIEKS. The PRODUCER looks out his office.
Terrific. Dr. Manhattan arrives and no one thinks to tell me?
He, he just--
All geez. We don't have time for make-up. That blue is too light for television. The light from Dr. Manhattan's SKIN DARKENS to a DEEPER BLUE.
Is this dark enough?
Uh, yeah
that's dark enough.
Just another reminder that if the second Geneva Convention comes up, our official position is that talks will not resume until the Chinese agree to exclude you from the agenda. The President approved this interview because he wanted to strengthen morale at home and to gently remind the rest of the world who holds the cards. Please keep that in mind. Dr. Manhattan stands off stage, waiting. The LIGHTS come up and we're live with the glossy NEWS HOST.
He's been called many things; Hero, weapon, linchpin of our security-- CUT TO: Dan and Laurie turning as the Young Thugs BLOCK THE ALLEYWAY. One of the Thugs pulls a KNIFE. Laurie and Dan exchange a look. Dan removes his glasses. CUT BACK TO:
His given name is Jonathan Osterman--Dr. Jonathan Osterman--a renowned nuclear physicist who through a terrible accident became the man the world knows today as Dr. Manhattan. The audience APPLAUDS loudly as Dr. Manhattan takes his seat.
Thank you.
Thank you, Dr. Manhattan, and not simply for appearing on this program. I believe I speak for all of America when I thank you for thwarting the terrorist plot at the port of Long Beach over a week ago-- Furious applause from the audience, which Dr. Manhattan regards curiously.
It was my duty. CUT TO: Dan and Laurie surrounded by the Thugs . when suddenly they DIVE INTO the group, fighting like the heroes they once were. Dan grapples with one of the Thugs and knocks his knife away-- --when another Thug nails him from behind with a BAT. Dan drops to the ground . BACK TO:
Before we start, I want to explain to our viewers the unconventional format for this interview. Our live audience is made up entirely of news media and Dr. Manhattan will be taking questions from the floor. This commercial free broadcast is presented to you by Veidt Enterprises. We see Adrian standing near the audience with the Press Agent, smiling for the camera.
CUT TO: Laurie, driving a FIST into a Thug's NOSE, when another Thug GRABS HER HAIR.
We will now take our first question-- The Thug draws a PISTOL on her. Dan, still on the ground, sees the gun and his eyes narrow, harden. He pushes himself up off the ground. CUT BACK TO: The TV Studio AUDIENCE: where Doug Roth, the journalist who interviewed Adrian earlier, stands.
Dr. Manhattan, Doug Roth, Nova Times. Do you remember a man named Wally Weaver?
Yes, he was a good friend of mine. When we were both physicists.
He died of cancer.
I remember. I attended his funeral.
How about Edgar Jacobi, also known as the supervillian Moloch? You had a lot of battles with him, didn't you? Did you know that he has cancer as-well? The News Host looks confused. Adrian turns to the Press Agent, growing concerned with where this is leading. CUT TO: Dan, snapping the GUNMAN'S wrist back and up-- Barrel aimed at the Thug's CHIN. In the last fraction of a second, Dan SHIFTS the gun two inches left as it FIRES, deafening the Thug, but leaving him alive. BACK TO:
I was not aware--
And what about Jose Flores? He was the longtime janitor at the Watchmen Headquarters where you worked for many years. Cancer.
By your line of questioning, you're suggesting that I was the cause of cancer in these individuals.
You tell me, doc. Adrian turns to him.
Doug, that `s enough.
It is irrelevant whether I was the cause or not.
Irrelevant?
A live human body and a dead human body have the same number of particles. Structurally there's no difference. An appalled then angry buzz comes over the audience.
What about Janey Slater? Do you think it makes a difference to her?
Janey Slater? Wh--
Your ex-girlfriend, she was a physicist too. You were with her for ten years. Or does she have to remind you herself? Suddenly Janey Slater emerges from a door at the top of the stands. She is old now, frail, barely recognizable from the images we've see of her.
She has cancer as well. Doctors have given her six months. What do you have to say, Ms. Slater? He sticks the microphone in her face.
D-damn you, Jon. God damn you
She leaves as fast as she came, bursting into tears. Dr. Manhattan stands, visibly shaken--
No, Janey, wait! In the audience, Adrian turns to the Press Agent, frantic.
We need to stop this now. Adrian and the Press Agent hurry on stage, SECURITY following.
That's it! Interview's over! BACK TO: The alley, littered with the unconscious BODIES of the Thugs. Laurie and Dan lean back on the wall, gasping for air, horribly out of shape, but victorious. CUT TO: The TV studio, as Adrian and Security surround Dr. Manhattan, trying to escort him out. The audience spills out of the stands, RUSHING Dr. Manhattan with questions and, FLASHING cameras--it's madness. Adrian shoves a camera out of Dr. Manhattan's face.
As the sponsor of this program I demand all cameras off! His plea is futile, of course. A REPORTER breaks through, gets in Dr. Manhattan's face.
Did you give Ms. Slater cancer by sleeping with her?
No. Please let me through
Do you even care about human life?
Please. If everyone would just go away and leave me alone. Adrian hears the note of warning in his voice.
Everyone back off! Don't you understand? He's the only thing preventing the world from chaos!
How many other people did you do this to? Dr. Manhattan finally SNAPS--
I said LEAVE ME ALONE! Every last person BURSTS INTO PARTICLES and DISAPPEARS. Dr. Manhattan is suddenly alone. He looks stunned almost.
I should find a hotel. God. Imagine, us getting mugged.
Why don't you come by Hollis' with me? Shake off the adrenaline.
No thanks, I've had enough hero stuff for one night.  You take care, Dan. It's a dangerous world out there.
You're late.
I know, you won't believe it--
You missed it--Dr. Manhattan just lost it on live TV.
Wait, what? Dan turns to the TV, which replays the clip of Dr. Manhattan being accosted and then teleporting everyone to the roof.
I was just with Laurie. She doesn't know.
She'll know soon enough. The whole world will know.
Laurel? Laurel Jane? Startled, Laurie turns. Blake steps out of the shadows.
You're Sally Jupiter's kid.
You're the Comedian, right? You were pretty cool in there. Blake lights a smoke, looks her over.
You got your mom's eyes. Even that funny little mole.
Got another smoke?
She was one of the all-time champion beauties, your mom. She talk about me much?
No. Not really. As Blake gives her a light, Laurie touches his hand to cover the lighter from the wind. She looks up at him, sly.
Hey Doll. Long time no see.
Not long enough in my book, Eddie. She eyes Laurie with cool death.
Put that out. Get in the car. INSIDE THE LIMO: Laurie cracks her window an inch. Her mother's harsh, low tone drifts clearly back.
Are there no depths you won't sink to?
Christ, we were just talking! Can't a guy talk to his, y'know, friend's daughter? What the hell do you think I am?
I know what you are, Eddie. I've always known. Don't ever forget that. Driving off, Laurie watches Blake through the window--
The Cabbie honks his horn as a team of SECRET SERVICE AGENTS get out of the SUV. Agent Forbes knocks on Laurie's window.
Ms. Jupiter, you need to come with us now.
I don't understand, what do you mean, Jon's gone?
I mean he snapped and disappeared during the interview. Now our trackers can't detect him anywhere on the planet. If we want to find him you're our only hope. A TECHNICIAN wires Laurie up; GRAPHS record Laurie's neural responses, MONITORS show satellite images.
Miss Jupiter, we need you to visualize Dr. Manhattan. Do you need a prompt?
No.
Neurotransmissions tracking.
Transmitting on all frequencies.
We're ready Miss Jupiter. We need you to try and talk to him. Laurie, wired like a porcupine, seems embarrassed.
Jon? Jon, can you hear me? The GRAPH-NEEDLES jump and tick, searching . when a high, clear TONE rings through the room. Needles fly. Technicians dash to lock it down. Agent Forbes hurries to the graph, looking over their shoulders.
Have you got him?
We've located his signal, yes.
Well? Where the hell is he? The Technician looks up, not happy about the answer.
He's on Mars.
Jon. Can you hear me, Jon? But these VOICES get progressively QUIETER, as we-- ZOOM BACK: Up, out of the atmosphere, at a blinding rate--
Aww, Jon, look--you've got cotton candy on the side of your mouth
You do too. Here, let me get it for you. He pulls her close. They giggle like the young lovers they are and then kiss, passionate BACK TO: Dr. Manhattan walking on mars' surface. He approaches a LARGE ROCK FORMATION which blocks his path. He PARTS the rock formation telekinetically, like Moses parting the sea-- --and we FLASHBACK, mirroring the parting of the rock formation to the parting of two SLIDING DOORS, in the LAB OF A NUCLEAR TESTING FACILITY, as Jon steps into the REACTOR
Janey? What's wrong?
The time lock, Jon! As it dawns on Jon, he hears the hum of the REACTOR INITIATING, the big mechanical parts moving. Jon runs to the door, BANGS on it.
Janey: Oh my god! TEARS stream down Janey's face as she looks at him through the thick glass, helpless, hopeless. Inside, the chamber starts to GLOW .
I'm sorry, Jon, I can't-- Janey can't bear to watch--she runs out of the lab as the reactor initiates
. and with a BLINDING FLASH--Jon and his watch are OBLITERATED to bits . BACK TO: Dr. Manhattan on Mars, as he obliterates the strange rock he was holding to bits and we FLASHBACK to the lab CAFETERIA. Janey sits at a table, crying softly, being consoled by her colleagues CUT TO: OUTSIDE THE NUCLEAR FACILITY, by the barbed wire fences, A DISEMBODIED BRAIN, A SET OF EYES, AND A SPINAL
--and we FLASHBACK to the cafeteria KITCHEN as a COOK SHRIEKS at A WALKING NETWORK OF HUMAN VEINS-- BACK TO: The pink glass structure on Mars which SPREADS OUT INTO COMPLEX GLASS PATTERNS, RISING FROM THE PLAIN at Dr. Manhattan's command-- --and we FLASHBACK to the cafeteria HALLWAY as a SKELETON passes two terrified GUARDS BACK TO: Dr. Manhattan, now dwarfed by the RISING, EVOLVING GLASS STRUCTURE, which begins to resemble parts of a WATCH-- --and we FLASHBACK to the cafeteria. Janey's still crying. One of her Colleagues reaches for her hand when STATIC SPARKS snap around them. All over the cafeteria, the METAL UTENSILS begin to SPARK. In the center of the room, GLOWING BLUE PARTICLES begin to collect, SLAMMING INTO EACH OTHER with amazing force and in a BLINDING FLASH, THE PARTICLES FORM DR. MANHATTAN, hovering over the room like a newborn god. Everyone in the cafeteria looks up in awe, in fear and--
Oh god . Jon is that you?
--recognition. BACK TO: Mars, where Dr. Manhattan's GLASS PALACE rises in its full glory. A home fit for a god.
There must be some way to contact him. Laurie sits in the room, largely forgotten.
Agent Forbes.
 What?
I need to go to the bathroom. Agent Forbes gives her a look, then waves for a SECRET SERVICE AGENT to escort her.
You're getting me out of here.
Don't you understand that sitting there with a bunch of high tech radios and monitors isn't going to bring him back?
Only one thing can bring ion back and that's Jon. If he wants to find me, he's quite capable of doing so on his own. I've been a prisoner in my live long enough. You are taking me out of here because if you don't, and Jon does come back, I'm going to let him know who was naughty and who was nice. And he won't give you a lump of coal--he'll turn you into one, understand? The Agent eyes her, then reluctantly gets to his feet.
Jesus! Rorschach
Good morning, Daniel. I brought in your paper. Dan reads the headline: "DR. MANHATTAN LEAVES EARTH."
The Comedian murdered. Dr. Manhattan exiled. Two of us gone within a week. Who's next? Veidt? Ms. Jupiter? Me? You? Rorschach turns for the door as Dan reads the story.
By the way, that new lock broke after one shove.
My new lock?
Get a stronger one, Daniel. You can't be too security conscious these days.
These days nobody's safe. We see the same Pakistani Soldiers from before, only now there are dozens more TROOPS with them, mobilizing on the border as are their Indian counterparts--
CUT TO: The Chinese Battleships we saw before, moving towards the coast of Taiwan. They FIRE SHOTS-- CUT TO: The Israel Missile Control room we were in before now bustles with frantic action.
--three synagogues were bombed in Tel Aviv, a bus exploded in Jerusalem--
Enough!
Forget picking sides--first, are we safe?
I want the National Guard put on the border. As for the rest of it . let's not jump into the fray just yet.
Let's just wait, okay?! Maybe he'll come back.  Maybe he'll come back.
Clock's ticking, Mr. Veidt.
I know. I'm meeting the toy people, yes?
Eleven-thirty. They want to talk to you about some new villains for the "Ozymandias" line.
All the old villains are dead.
What's with everybody today? Everyone's on this death trip.
I suppose the threat of war has that effect. ACROSS THE WAY, Dan enters the building, intercepts Adrian.
Adrian, I need to talk to you. Adrian looks put off.
Dan, I'm sorry, this is a bad time.
But what about what happened with ion? Adrian excuses himself from his Assistant.
Jon's departure is terrible. Not only for what's happening in the world now, but for what could have happened. The energy project he and I were working on--it's dead now .
Rorschach came to see me again. Maybe there's something to this mask killer thing.
Are you still preoccupied with the ramblings of that lunatic? I really don't have time for this, Dan.
Adrian walks away, continuing on with his Assistant when a MAN in a TRENCHCOAT approaches the pair. He DRAWS A GUN on them .
Sometimes I can't bear to watch the news. It makes it so hard to be optimistic Is that a gun? Dan sees what's happening--
Adrian! BANG! The man SHOOTS the Assistant in the gut; Adrian immediately springs into action--he moves with unbelievable speed and quickness, grabbing a velvet ROPE-STANCHION-- --DEFLECTING A SECOND BULLET with it-- --and SMASHING IT INTO THE FACE OF THE ASSASSIN, knocking him into a FOUNTAIN. SECURITY GUARDS run, guns drawn, toward the fountain where Adrian GRAPPLES with the dazed man.
Mr. Veidt! Let us handle it!
Wait, he's got a poison capsule! He JAMS his fingers into the Assassin's mouth when Dan arrives.
Don't bite down, you scum! I want to know who sent you! The Assassin's eyes BULGE
I want to know who's behind this! The Assassin CHOKES and dies. Adrian DROPS him, unanswered. He looks over at Dan, frustrated.
Oh my god. Where's Adrian now?
Talking to the cops. Thank god he's still in great shape. You get so caught up with the whole smartest man in the world thing you forget what a physical specimen he is- -he's as fast as I've ever seen him
I'm not sure. I can't go stay with my mom- -I'm sure that's the first place they'll look. But I need to get out of the city. It's only a matter of time before they find me.
Listen, why don't you . how about you stay at my place?
Oh, Dan, I couldn't impose--
It wouldn't be an imposition, I have an extra room. We're friends. And with everything that's been happening
You're buying into Rorschach's "mask killer" theory?
I don't know. But it can't hurt to be safe. Besides, I've already had one wanted person visit me, another one won't make a difference. They look at each other. Laurie smiles.
Okay.
Some local low-life named Roy Chess
Rorschach investigates the apartment of ROY CHESS, Adrian's would-be assassin. The place is decent but messy. Rorschach spots a PORNO MAG on the coffee table. On the couch nearby, a pair of PANTS. Rorschach picks them up, reaches into the pockets. He pulls out some cash, credit cards-- --and an ID for Pyramid Industries. It says Chess was a security guard . and then Rorschach remembers the pension check he saw at Moloch's house. From Pyramid Industries. Rorschach sees a LAPTOP over on the kitchen table. The computer is on and shows the SERVER for Pyramid Industries. Rorschach navigates the server until he finds the EMPLOYEE
Once in the directory he pauses for a second. Then he types in a name: "Jane Slater." A photo of Janey Slater pops up--"Status: RETIRED." Rorschach stares at the screen, excited at the connection.
Rorschach's Journal, October 19th. Someone tried to kill Adrian Veidt. Proves mask killer theory--the murderer is closing in. Pyramid Industries is the key. Rorschach approaches a TRASH CAN. He rummages through it and finds an ENVELOPE. He opens it and finds a NOTE that reads: "Tonight 11:30, M."
Checked mail drop, got a message from Moloch. Was just going to pay him a visit. Rorschach turns down an alley, approaches a DUMPSTER. He reaches behind the dumpster.
My things are where I left them. My coat. My gloves
Still in his POV, we watch him put each article on. Then he pulls out his MASK.
. my face. Rorschach pulls his mask on, FILLING THE SCREEN
Somebody tried to shoot the world's smartest man today, Moloch. Moloch sits at the kitchen table. CLOSE ON: MOLOCH'S HAND. An ignored CIGARETTE smolders. In his other hand, a NOTE.
The hitman worked for Pyramid Industries. So did Janey Slater and everyone else Dr. Manhattan allegedly gave cancer to. And last time I was here, I saw a pension check sent to you from the same company-- obviously a front set up by whoever it is that killed the Comedian, that pushed Dr. Manhattan over the edge, that wants us masks dead. Is that why you left me a note in my mail drop? You have something to confess? Rorschach turns. A HOLE gapes between Moloch's staring eyes. A PISTOL lies on the table--Moloch's dead. Rorschach carefully pulls the NOTE from Moloch's hand. It's the note Rorschach had left in Moloch's refrigerator, the one that reads: "LOOK BEHIND YOU." Behind Rorschach, BLINDING LIGHT GLARES THROUGH THE WINDOW.
EMPTY_LINE
No.
No. No, no, no
Framed. Set up. Walked right into it. Stupid, stupid, stupid.
Heh. Never. Never surrender. Rorschach takes an AEROSOL CAN and a PEPPER SHAKER.
When you are
The HOOK BLOWS THE BODY-ARMORED COP OVER THE RAILING.
We've got him. There's no way out. From the second floor, Rorschach SMASHES THROUGH THE WINDOW, snarling like a rabid dog, landing hard on the concrete. His ankle TWISTS, dropping him to the ground. Rorschach struggles to get to his feet. When he looks up he finds TWENTY COPS IN A SEMI-CIRCLE before him. A loaded, pregnant pause. The COPS RUSH FORWARD.
But Rorschach holds up a gloved hand. And they all stop, unsure what this lunatic will do next.
Ten years. I've waited for this. He beckons them forward. The cops PILE INTO HIM. Rorschach brutally disables six cops before he is overwhelmed.
No pain. Must get up. Find who framed me-- A Cop KICKS HIM in the throat. Rorschach drops again.
Get that mask off him!
I got it. Christ, he stinks!
No no no NO NO NO! The Cop peels back the shifting mask to reveal the Homeless Man from the news stand. He screams at them wildly.
My face! Give it back to me! Rorschach is finally beaten, surrounded by cops, as Moloch's house blazes in the background.
What time is it?
Noon. Thought I'd let you sleep in. Laurie smiles at him. Is Dan crazy or does he sense a spark? She touches his shoulder as she turns into the living room, then turns on the TV:
Today, police searched the apartment of Walter Kovacs, better known as the masked vigilante Rorschach. Kovacs was captured last night and charged with the murder of Edgar Jacobi, formerly known as the supervillain Moloch. Moloch was found shot in the head at point blank range. Both Dan and Laurie stop what they're doing, eyes fixed on the TV: They see Rorschach, unmasked, IN SHACKLES.
Inside the decrepit apartment, police discovered stacks of right-wing literature, including several years of back issues of the ultra-conservative publication, "The New Frontiersman." We asked "New Frontiersman" editor, Hector Godfrey, for comment. CUT TO: A clip of the EDITOR being interviewed. We see Seymour, who we met at the news stand, in the background.
Rorschach is an American patriot and we are proud that he reads this publication.
During his capture, Kovacs assaulted and severely injured at least nine police officers, shooting one officer with a grappling gun. That officer is in serious but stable condition.
Meanwhile, in Kashmir, fighting continues to intensify. Both India and Pakistan alluded that the use of nuclear weapons is not out of the question-- Laurie shuts off the TV, not wanting to hear the war talk.
That mask's eaten Rorschach's brains away.
He wasn't always like that. We were a great team--tactically, he was brilliant. But I don't know, something about this murder charge I just can't see Rorschach shooting Moloch.
He shot a cop with a grappling gun.
Don't remind me, I made that thing for him. But a regular gun just seems too . ordinary
And this war, god. Sometimes I wish I could just leave the planet. Like Jon.
Oh sure. The old Manhattan Transfer.
Now, that's funny. That's what you call Jon's teleportation?
Well, not to his face. Laurie laughs.
Walter Kovacs. Is that your name? Walter?
No. The Psychiatrist sits back, considering Rorschach carefully.
Let me explain your situation here, Walter. If you cooperate with me, I may be able to convince them that you should to be treated medically, in a hospital, which I believe is best for you. But the authorities want to put you in General Population.
A prison is a prison.
Yes, but the difference is, downstairs? They'll eat you alive. He holds up a RORSCHACH BLOT-CARD.
Now . . tell me what you see. FLASH OF: A DEAD DOG. Bloody, horrible.
A pretty butterfly. The Psychiatrist holds up another blot-card.
How about this one? What do you see here? FLASH OF: Rorschach, as a LITTLE BOY, watching his MOTHER, HALF NAKED, EMBRACE A MAN AS HE HANDS HER SOME MONEY. When she catches Rorschach interrupting, she SMACKS him in the face. Shuts the door on him.
Some nice flowers. The Psychiatrist eyes him, dubious. Holds up another card. FLASH OF: Rorschach as a little boy looking up at TWO OLDER BOYS, teasing him. Calling him "son of a whore." Rorschach just wants to be left alone when one of the Boys SPITS in his face. Suddenly, Rorschach's face changes. He attacks the Boy like a wild animal--biting, clawing .
Clouds. The Psychiatrist sighs, puts the cards down.
Tell me about Rorschach. Will you do that?
Why are you here with me, doctor?
Because I want to make you well.
There's other men in here with behavior more extreme than mine. Of course, they're not famous. You want to know about Rorschach, doctor? I'll tell you about Rorschach
I was investigating a kidnap case. Blair Roche, 6 year old girl. I was young then. Too soft on criminals. I let them live.
Broke a man's arm to get a tip. Led me to the missing girl's location.
I knew the girl was here. But when I searched the place I found nothing.
And then I found her.
. to the dogs, still fighting over the BONE, which we now recognize as a small, HUMAN FEMUR--that of the little girl. Rorschach clenches his hands in fury, his fists tremble and suddenly, he relaxes. Calms. Rorschach slowly turns to the cupboard. He reaches for a large CLEAVER .
It was dark when the murderer got back. As dark as it gets.
You think I had something to do with that girl? I didn't! Where's your evidence? Rorschach calmly points to body of the dog. (It is the same image Rorschach saw in the first blot-card.)
Okay, I confess! I kidnapped her! I killed her! Arrest me!
Men get arrested. Rorschach RAISES THE CLEAVER, high over his head
RORSCHACH Dogs get put down. Rorschach SWINGS the cleaver DOWN. Blood SPATTERS his mask.
A tremor of impact shook my arm. Warm blood splashed my face. It was Walter Kovacs who screamed, who closed his eyes-- it was Rorschach who opened them again. The silence reels out RORSCHACH You see, Doctor. God didn't kill that little girl, fate didn't butcher her and destiny didn't feed her to those dogs. If God saw what any of us did that night, he didn't seem to mind. From then on, I knew. God doesn't make the world this way. We do. The Psychiatrist rises shakily. He crosses to the GUARD.
I can't help him.
Hey Rorschach, I heard your momma was a whore! A cruel RIPPLE OF LAUGHTER and the mass conversation begins again as Rorschach takes his place in the food line. A HUGE PRISONER moves in behind him. He whispers:
Hey, Rorschach. You're pretty famous, right? Y'know, I'm pretty famous too. Maybe I can give you my autograph. The Prisoner slides a SHIV from his sleeve
Rorschach doesn't register this. He waits for the FRY-COOK behind the counter to turn away-- --then casually reaches across and lifts the DEEP-FRYER BASKET from its mount-- --the Prisoner JABS the shiv forward--Rorschach spins, GRIPPING the man's wrist and FLINGING the BOILING GREASE INTO THE MAN'S FACE. The man SHRIEKS like a FIRE WHISTLE and CRASHES TO THE GROUND. The Guards DESCEND on Rorschach. Rorschach is calm as he's dragged away. As the injured man's screams fall away to weak, bubbling hitches, the room once again goes silent. Rorschach eyes the fearful, hateful eyes of the room, marking each one. And in the silence he speaks, his icy voice carrying easily.
None of you understand. I'm not locked up in here with you. Rorschach is placidly dragged off INTO DARKNESS
You're locked up in here with me.
All these gadgets and there isn't even a dash lighter She hits a BUTTON--the lights inside go DIM. Creepy. She hits the button again to turn the lights back on but nothing
Laurie?! Dan BOLTS for the basement door, thoughts of the mask-killer on his mind.
Dan grabs a FIRE EXTINGUISHER.
Where are you?! Dan SPRAYS the fire. Laurie stumbles from the smoke, out of the Owl-Ship. Dan's got the fire under control now.
I'm so sorry--I hit the wrong button. I was looking for the lighter in.there.
I don't smoke. Are you hurt?
I'm fine, but your ship--
Ah, that's mostly just soot. Archie's pretty resilient.
Archie?
Still with the mask-killer theory? Rorschach is insane.
Maybe, but the Comedian murdered; Jon exiled; Someone tries to shoot Adrian; Rorschach gets arrested. It makes me uneasy.
Dan goes to a BANK OF SWITCHES on the wall. Flicking them, the Owl-Chamber LIGHTS UP. Hidden FANS dissipate the smoke.
How did you ever afford all this?
My Dad was in corporate banking. He left me quite a bit. Which always surprised me.
How did he die?
Mugging. He was shot. As Dan cleans up, Laurie watches him, like she's seeing him for the first time.
You really do worry about me, don't you?
Huh? Well, yeah, of course I worry about you, I mean, we're, y'know, friends-- Laurie takes off his glasses . and KISSES him. It's what Dan's been wanting all this time . but he pulls away.
Sorry, I
What's wrong? But Dan is already walking up the stairs, pathetic. Laurie's left there, alone. The Owl-Costume looming in the background.
It's been a long time, Rorschach. Rorschach turns to see TWO THUGS standing side by side, one muscle bound, the other very fat, staring at him through the bars. PAN DOWN: To reveal a MIDGET between them--the supervillain known as the BIG FIGURE--his silver hair combed neatly back, a big CIGAR perched in his tiny mouth.
Big Figure. Small world.
 I like that. But you know, it is a small world in here. I've been in it for--how long now, Billy?
Twenty years, Mr. Figure.
That's right. Twenty years since you and that owl fella put me away. Rorschach-- that guy you burned is dying. Could go any minute now. And when he does, this place is gonna explode. Then you die by inches.
Tall order.
 I'm gonna tear this guy a new hole!
Relax, Lloyd. Soon. Chuckling, Big Figure walks off down the long, shadowed corridor. Rorschach continues staring, straight ahead.
Dan? Is everything okay? I heard you coming down the stairs Descending the stairs, she finds Dan before his costume, naked. He fiddles with an OWL-WING THROWING WEAPON.
Mask killers. War. Nuclear annihilation. I feel so powerless, so I've been afraid of this damn costume. Afraid of how much I need it. He FLINGS the owl wing crescent, whizzing into the dark.
So. Let's take the ship out.
What?
Who's to know? I used to be a "masked avenger" too, remember? I'm used to getting up at three in the morning to do something stupid. Besides, I'm already a wanted lady, you're already in trouble for hiding me, how much more trouble can we be in? Just give me a second--can't go out like this. She jogs upstairs. Dan turns to the empty, waiting suit.
I can't believe it still fits. Luckily I constructed it with material that was elastic and-- Dan turns as Laurie appears at the door, decked in her BLACK SPANDEX. SILK SPECTRE, looking every bit as good as seventeen-
--form fitting
I'm ready. Dan turns and sees his reflection in the owl-Ship's window.
Me too.
Let's have some cloud cover.
It's so beautiful
Hang on. Dan BANKS, wheeling the ship toward the VELDT BUILDING.
Got to clean her up a bit. I'm sure Adrian wouldn't want to impede the course of justice. Heading straight for the building, Dan JIGS at the last moment, flying the ship THROUGH THE V-SHAPED WATERFALL in the skyscraper's center. The water washes clean the years of dust. The Owl-Ship emerges, sparkling like new.
Look! Below, a TENEMENT BUILDING is ENGULFED IN FLAME. Dan's jaw sets. He wheels the ship around and down. As they zoom closer, they can see people SCREAMING from the windows.
There's children in there!
I'm putting the water cannons on the lower stories. 
 Can you escort the people over? She watches him move, quick, confident. She smiles.
I'm on it. Nite Owl.
Hi. If you could all form a line, we'll have you out of here in just a moment. ATOP THE SHIP: Dan latches the steering column into its roof socket. He stands; Takes a deep, chest-expanding breath. Who has he been kidding? This is who he is. Flicking a switch OLD JAZZ plays pleasantly.
Anybody want coffee?
I can't believe we did that! That was actually fun
Yeah. He puts a hand on her shoulder. His eyes locked onto hers. He knows what he wants and this time he's not afraid of it He kisses her. Hard. Running her hands up his cheeks, they slide each other's masks off. Their mouths melt together.
It was good, wasn't it?
Yeah, saving those people from the fire. Taking Archie out Laurie swats him on the chest--that's not what she meant. Dan grins, having fun with her.
It--you were unbelievable. They kiss.
So . what do we do next? Dan sits up, serious. Very serious.
I've been thinking about that. And I believe we have certain obligations to our fraternity.
What?
He's dead, Rorschach--the riot's already begun. While everyone's distracted, we thought we'd bring you a housewarming gift. Something from the machine shop. The Fat Thug wheels an ELECTRICAL WELDER to the door. Rorschach sits, idly TEARING his PRISON SHIRT into STRIPS.
Hey Boss, y'notice? None of that "small world, tall order" crap, cuz he knows once we slice open this lock, he's next on the block.
Fat chance. The Fat Thug reddens. He DIVES forward, HANDS SWIPING for Rorschach.
You're dead, Rorschach! We got a prison full of killers out here! What've you got? Rorschach SPINS, WRAPPING A SHIRT-STRIP AROUND HIS WRISTS, trapping the Fat Thug's hands inside the cell.
Your hands. My pleasure. Rorschach SNAPS Fat Thug's pinky fingers. Fat Thug SHRIEKS. Rorschach roughly binds the fingers around the bars. Dumb Thug tries to reach the welder around Fat Thug's body.
I can't reach the lock. Should I cut the bars?
This riot won't last. And I've been waiting twenty years for this Big Figure nods to the Dumb Thug, who then grabs Fat Thug's neck.
Nothing personal, big guy.
Boss, you can't be serious! Wait-- Dumb Thug SNAPS Fat Thug's neck. He then CUTS OFF Fat Thug's hands with the welder, pushes the corpse out of the way to reach the lock. Big Figure grins at Rorschach.
Now you find out what the score is.
One-nothing. Come and get me.
Look, Dan, I'm glad you were able to rediscover your calling in life, but I think you're getting carried away. You're talking about springing a homicidal psychopath from prison.
Rorschach may be sick, but I think he's on to something--four heroes attacked in a week is not a coincidence. I mean, that whole cancer thing with ion, does that make sense to you? You didn't contract cancer from him. He says as Laurie's about to light a cigarette. She changes her mind.
Why would someone want to drive ion away? Look what's happening now. With Jon gone it looks like we're headed for another World War. Who would want that?
OUTSIDE THE WINDOW: The Owl-Ship approaches a ROOFTOP with a HELIPAD. On the helipad is a HELICOPTER with the Veidt Enterprises LOGO.
I don't know. But I know someone who might be able to help. Dan lands the Owl-Ship on the roof.
You're leaving town? So you do believe Rorschach's theory.
Please. Right now, I'm not concerned with this so-called mask-killer, I'm concerned with the mass killer called war, or have you not heard.  On ! A WALL SIZED MIRROR turns into a TV:
--US Aircraft Carriers have already moved into the Persian Gulf and US Battleships have left Japan en route to the Far East
It's happening Dan breaks away from the terrible news, follows Adrian.
All the more reason we need to get to the bottom of this. Maybe we can get Jon to come back in the process and stop all this madness.
Nothing we do will bring Jon back!  But I think you know that already. And breaking Rorschach out of prison certainly isn't the answer.
Rorschach's been the only one investigating this from the start. Without him, we're starting at the beginning and we don't have that kind of time. We need your help, Adrian.
I'm leaving, Dan. And I suggest you both do the same. Adrian pulls on a thick WINTER COAT and heads upstairs.
Where are you going to go?
Antarctica. It takes Dan a moment to realize Adrian is serious. By then, Adrian's halfway into the helicopter.
Good luck, Dan. He says it sincerely. Dan watches the helicopter fly off.
Hurry Lloyd! I wanna smell this sonofabitch cooking! The lock MELTS AWAY. Rorschach climbs onto his bunk as Dumb Thug enters, JABBING the electric welder at him menacingly. Rorschach drives his HEEL into the porcelain TOILET BOWL, SHATTERING IT. WATER SPILLS across the floor. Rorschach KICKS Dumb Thug in the stomach; Dumb Thug buckles, then SLIPS in the water--Dumb Thug falls, welder still in hand as he hits the water Dumb Thug's hand FUSES to the welder as ELECTRICITY SURGES THROUGH HIM. He collapses, smoking. Dead.
Hmm. Never disposed of sewage with a toilet before. Obvious, really. Big Figure looks very small and alone now
Two-nothing. Your move. Panic stricken, Big Figure moves, or rather, runs. Rorschach calmly follows him out of the cell.
You don't have to do this. I know the whole crimefighting thing wasn't necessarily your choice in life.
No. But this is. She moves next to him.
But I'm not doing it for Rorschach or even for Jon. And I'm sure as hell not doing if for the Comedian. They look at each other--Dan knows who she's doing it for. The Owl-Ship is upon the prison now
Look! They see a RIOT below--Inmates spilling out into the yard, overwhelming the Correctional Officers on the ground; TOWER GUARDS take shots at some of the Inmates; Broken glass, broken furniture parts scattered through the yard; SMOKE emits from inside the prison.
Hmm, Rorschach gets locked up in here and suddenly there's a riot. I wonder if that's a coincidence. They descend toward the hell of TEAR-GAS, FIRE and VIOLENCE. The Tower Guards, stunned at the sight of the Owl-Ship, begin SHOOTING at it. The bullets bounce right off.
Put your ear-plugs in.
How are we going to find Rorschach in all of this?
When he and I were partners, we each had tracking implants put under our skin so old Archie here could find us if either one of us were ever in trouble. Let's see if Rorschach kept his in. Dan turns on the GPS monitor. There's a BLIP on the screen.
He's in that wing. Dan steers the ship toward the Maximum Security Wing. 9
Laurie and Dan turn the corner, searching. Laurie spots the BODY of a DEAD GUARD. She crouches to take his PISTOL, slips it into her waistband.
How do we know he's still alive? They come upon Rorschach's cell. Dan sees the SMOKING CORPSE of Dumb Thug. Sees the CUT OFF HANDS of Fat Thug, HANGING from the bars.
He's alive.
Is that--
Rorschach? Rorschach!
Hello, Daniel, Ms. Jupiter. Excuse me, I just have to visit the men's room. He disappears into the dark bathroom. Laurie watches after him in stunned disbelief.
Oh, for Christ's sake.
Hey, it happens. I remember I lost a big arrest like that once. Had to redesign the costume after that-- Rorschach exits the bathroom, wiping his hands.
We can leave now. He walks off.
Are you sure you're ready? We don't want to go diving head-first into things.
Good Advice. I'm sure there are many who'd agree with you. Behind them: BLOODY WATER FLOODS from the bathroom door as they go.
Good to see you in uniform, Daniel. What happened? Finally taking the mask-killer seriously?
I'm not.
Of course you haven't been attacked yet. Funny, most everyone else has.
What's that supposed to mean? We came here to rescue you, asshole!
Hey! Survive now! Argue later! I had to turn the screechers off, so we'll be drawing fire. The owl-Ship rises to the roof. They all jump in.
Rorschach, you remember how to handle Archie?
I believe so. Rorschach sits in the pilot's seat. Dan turns to Laurie, high on adrenaline and love. Dan moves in to kiss her--
Daniel.
Give us a second--
I don't think this can wait.
What? What is it Dan looks up, through the windshield, and sees-- --Dr. Manhattan WALKING ACROSS THE CLOUDS--STRAIGHT FOR THE
It `s him. The ship COLLIDES with Dr. Manhattan, who PASSES THROUGH into the CABIN with a SHOWER of BLUE PARTICLES--
Hello Laurie.
They said you were on Mars.
I am on Mars. You and I are about to have a conversation there.
Where? What are you talking about?
You are going to try to convince me to save the world.
Wait, what? You're taking her to Mars? No, she can't--Laurie, I don't know about
Laurie looks at Dan then at Dr. Manhattan. Comprehending
I have to go, Dan. Jon and I, we're going to talk. Maybe we'll find some way out of this mess the world's gotten itself in. I'll be okay. Really.
Laurie and Dr. Manhattan BURST INTO PARTICLES--they're gone. Dan stares at the space where Laurie just was.
No time for heartbreak, Daniel.
Dan notes TWO BLIPS on the RADAR.
Let's try and lose them in the city. He hits the jets, heading for the New York SKYLINE.
So. What do you think?
J--huc? Hhhhhhh-- Laurie GRIPS her throat and TUMBLES down the hill. She rolls into Jon, waiting for her at the bottom. She CLAWS at him.
Oh. Forgive me. These things sometimes slip my mind. He TOUCHES her mouth, forming a small ATMOSPHERE around her. She HEAVES in air, retching and choking at the same time.
Jon, you stupid bastard! Listen, you better not forget this air supply or whatever it is  Oh shit. Laurie stands up before Jon's huge GLASS PALACE.
I'm on Mars.
--and heads straight for a SUBWAY TUNNEL
oh no.
Tactical error, Daniel.
I know-- They head straight for the subway-- --when the tunnel opens up-- --Dan SWERVES to the adjacent track just in time.
Shit. Dan accelerates, weaving Archie around the skyscrapers, the Empire State Building . but the copter's still there. Dan cuts around the UNITED NATIONS BUILDING. The copter follows the Owl-Ship around to the East River . but the Owl-Ship is nowhere to be found The copter hovers there. Baffled.
Rorschach? That fool put my cousin in a
Does he now
It's just like old times, Sal. Nite Owl and Silk Spectre back at it again. CUT TO: Sally Jupiter on the other end in California, watching the same footage.
I always knew Laurie had it in her. Sorry for waking you, Hollis.
I may be retired from the costume, but my sleeping habits have never changed. There's a KNOCK at Hollis's door.
Who--there's someone at the door. It might be Dan and Laurie--they may need help. I better go. Hollis hangs up, heads to the door, excited. He opens the
--and the Gang Members PILE INTO HIM. The picture SLOWS DOWN. Hollis turns, mouth bleeding. HOLLIS' POV IS SEPIA TONED. The gang appears as a COLLECTION of VILLAINS in COSTUMES. SLOW, SEPIA: A young Hollis is in his old COSTUME. The VOICES come from the present, while Hollis is lost in the past.
In his SLO-MO world, Hollis PASTES at Villain in the mouth-- in reality, he gets nailed. This intercutting continues until the Gang Leader picks up the GOLD STATUE of Hollis in costume whose base reads: IN GRATITUDE
Then I'm probably doing him a favor. Hollis, old again, looks up. The SHADOW of the statue
I hate this. How long are we going to stay down here? Daniel! Dan says nothing. Rorschach puts on his costume.
You're letting fear paralyze you. And that woman--
Hey! We took enough unnecessary risks bringing Archie up so you could get your spare costume. We stay put until it cools down out there--they're looking for us.
Unnecessary? Cowering in the sludge, from the authorities, that's unnecessary. Rorschach pulls his mask on, turns.
While we waste time, the mask-killer gets closer. We need to get to Pyramid Industries. Dan sits at the COMPUTER.
I know, you told me already. I'm tapping into all the databases, finding out about the company--
Sitting at a computer? No. We need to trace the killer--hit up underworld contacts, squeeze people. You've forgotten how we do things. You've been lazing around too long.
Listen, I HAVE HAD IT! Who the hell do you think you are? You live off people while insulting them, and no one complains because they think you're a goddamn lunatic! Dan turns away, shaking. He leans against the console.
I'm sorry. I shouldn't have said that. Maybe you're right, maybe--
Dan turns. Rorschach holds out an open hand.
You are a good friend. I'm sorry that it is sometimes difficult with me. Touched, Dan shakes his hand. An awkward, lovely moment.
Hey forget it It's okay, man. Releasing his hand with some effort, Dan sits, invigorated.
You're right. It's time to head up.
Let's really start plumbing the depths.
Our conversation commences when you surprise me with the information that you and Dreiberg have been sleeping together.
You . know about me and Dan?
Not yet. But in a few moments, you're going to tell me.
Jon, I'm having enough problems right now without getting into your predestination crap.
Why does my perception of time distress you so?
Because. If you already know the future, why were you surprised when I left you, or when that reporter ambushed you? Why even debate if you already know the outcome?
Because everything is pre-ordained. Even my responses.
Agh! This is so typical of you! Do you know what a relief it is to be with somebody human, like Dan?
You mean you're sleeping with Dan Dreiberg? Contemplating this, he steps to the balcony's edge.
But you already know . You said--
I said, often, that you were my only remaining link with the world. Now that link is shattered. Don't you see the futility of asking me to save a world that I no longer have any stake in?
That's ridiculous. The Earth is too important to hinge on one relationship.
Not to me. My red world here means more to me than your blue one. I'll show you around if you like. The giant Glass Palace begins to RUMBLE.
Are you doing this? I'm not in the mood for jokes.
Nor I. Believe me, I fully understand the gravity of the situation. The clockwork Glass Palace RISES HIGH INTO THE AIR
You sure this is the correct location, Daniel?
Positive. Pyramid Industries. Specializes in industrial plastics. At least they did.
I tapped into all the databases--tax records, business registries, real estate records--trying to get a bead on who's behind Pyramid but it's a never ending paper trail. Rorschach investigates ahead when Dan catches some MOVEMENT-- --he turns his FLASHLIGHT to find a few HOMELESS PEOPLE squatting in the warehouse. Upon seeing Dan in.costume, the Homeless People run away.
Daniel.
They're harmless, Rorschach.
Daniel. Rorschach is looking down at something. Dan heads over and sees a DEAD BODY in the early stages of decomposition. He turns the body over--bullet between the eyes just like Moloch . but we recognize the corpse--it's journalist Doug Roth.
Hey, I know this man.
Yes. Doug Roth. Journalist who grilled Dr. Manhattan on national television.
No I didn't watch that interview. This was the guy who was doing a story on Adrian when I went to see him.
Hmm. Journalist set up Dr. Manhattan, was probably working to set up Veidt also. Dan stands there thinking. As if hit with an epiphany. He opens his mouth like he can't believe what he's going to say.
Rorschach. What, what if it's Adrian?
Veidt? Behind everything? Makes no sense.
On the surface it doesn't, but hear me out--Adrian's the only one who could've taken on the Comedian in hand to hand combat. He's the only one with the finances to create an entire company for the sole purpose of setting up Dr. Manhattan. And Adrian was directly involved in arranging that broadcast. He probably supplied this journalist with the whole cancer list.
That doesn't explain the attempt on Veidt's life.
If we say that Adrian set that up himself, he could've had the hitman shoot his assistant first. It was a risk, but--
But why?
I don't know. Let's go ask him.
Mr. Veidt, may I?
By all means, Eric.
I just would like to say that when I was first offered this position, I was hesitant. A multi-year commitment to work in Antarctica?
But the opportunity to experiment with Dr. Manhattan's atomic fusion energy was too great for me to pass up, too great for any of us to pass up. And now that our work is finished, and we finally get to go home, I can say that it was all worth it. Mr. Veidt, you are a genius. The world will be a better place because of you.
I certainly hope so. The group applauds. Then they sip their champagne. All except for Adrian The group goes around congratulating each other, when suddenly the Head Scientist COLLAPSES, choking. The others surround him, trying to help-- --when one by one they each start collapsing themselves-- POISONED by the champagne. Adrian regards them all, writhing on the floor, and leaves.
Something I can help you with, boys? They all spin around, frightened at the costume.
L-listen, I didn't mean to kill that old guy. Things just got outta hand
What old guy?
--and sees Dan gripping the bloody Gang Leader by the THROAT, CHOKING him as the other Gang Members flee.
You're dead! You and the rest of your gang, you're all DEAD! You know how much fire-power I've got floating out there!? Oh god damn. Hollis. God damn god damn god damn Dan begins to break up. Rorschach quietly pulls him away.
Not now, Daniel.
Rorschach's Journal. Final entry? Dreiberg is convinced that Veidt is behind everything. Apparently, the Owl- Ship is capable of the trip to Antarctica, but are we? I cannot imagine a more dangerous opponent. Veldt is faster than Dreiberg and myself. He used to joke that he was fast enough to catch a bullet. I believe he could. He could kill us both, alone in' the snow. No one would know. Rorschach descends the ladder, goes to the door of the building. He places his JOURNAL in an ENVELOPE.
I have done my best to make this legible. Whether I am alive or dead upon this reading, know that whatever the nature of this conspiracy--Adrian Veldt is responsible. He drops the envelope into the MAIL SLOT, climbs back up the ladder.
I appreciate your recent support and hope the world survives long enough for this to reach you. For my own part, I regret nothing. I have lived my life free of compromise, and step now into the shadow without complaint. Rorschach. October 21st.
Rorschach disappears into the dark hatch. The Owl-Ship blasts off . disappearing, just as Seymour arrives. Seymour picks up the mail and walks inside.
SEYMOUR! Is that Dulmage's editorial cartoon?
It's the mail. Hey cool, someone sent us their journal.
War's coming, Seymour--I don't wanna hear some knob's life story! Chuck it in the crank file! Seymour tosses Rorschach's journal into a PILE OF LETTERS.
Can't you just tell me how this all ends and save us the trouble?
It ends with you in tears.
Tears. You mean I lose? You don't come back to Earth?
I return to Earth at some point. The streets are filled with death.
You mean there's going to be a war? An actual, nuclear war?
I can't be sure. I'm still experiencing some static interference preventing any clear vision of what lies ahead.
Static?
Tachyon particles. Tachyons are a rare occurrence. The detonation of nuclear warheads could conceivably be the cause.
Jon, you've got to stop it! Everyone will die!
And the universe will not even notice. See the dual moons. Aren't they breathtaking? Above, TWO MOONS cross overhead. One is HUGE, CRIMSON RED, the smaller is a delicate SHELL PINK. Spectacular.
You're right, Jon--what does human life matter next to a, a neutrino. Look, I'm not going to debate you when you clearly don't see anything terribly miraculous about life. I guess quantum physics doesn't allow for miracles.
No, thermodynamic miracles are--
Oh God, Jon. Land this thing. Now.
On the Argyre Planitia? As you wish. The structure descends. Laurie stomps down the stairs.
That's it then. You can send me back to Earth to fry with Dan and my Mom and all the other worthless humans. And look, you were wrong. You said this ended with me in tears and see? Not a damp eye in the house. Maybe you're wrong about everything.
Jon is waiting for her at the bottom of the stairs.
Laurie. You complain that I refuse to see life on life's terms. And yet you continuously refuse to see things from my perspective. If only you'd try to see the whole continuum, life's pattern, you'd understand. But you deliberately shut it out as if afraid to see.
I'm not afraid, okay? You want me to see things your way? Go ahead, do that thing you do. She stands there, arms folded, waiting. Then, just like earlier in the lab, Jon touches her head--
You wanted to hear it, so I'm telling you, okay?. Magic! Dreams! That's what I had before. I was a hero goddammit!
It's not my fault you got old! What do you have to complain about?! I'm putting food on the table for you and your child. Why don't you give your friend Eddie a call? Maybe he can give you a better life!
It was a mistake--one time! Am I never-- And then they notice Laurie looking at them.
Mommy?
Oh. Oh, Laurie
Tears run down little Laurie's face. Her parents are
No. No, no, no, no not him
The comedian was your father.
But he--
Attacked your mother. Yes.  Two years later he came back to her, to make amends. And you were conceived on that day.
Laurie WHIPS a BOTTLE at the palace-- --and the huge glass construction CRUMBLES. Jon protects them with a FORCE FIELD as debris collapses around them. Laurie sobs in the echoing SILENCE. Jon's eyes SHUT. He seems to feel . empathy. A TEAR slips down his cheek. Laurie's realization is a revelation for ion.
The comedian is my father. I guess my life is just one big joke.
I don't think your life is a joke.
Well, of course you're going to say that.
But I've changed my mind. There are miracles in your world that are worth preserving.
What? But you were saying--
I tried to explain. Thermodynamic miracles--events with odds against so astronomical, like oxygen turning into gold. I have longed to witness such a thing and yet I neglect that in human coupling, millions upon millions of cells compete to create life over generation after generation: Until finally, your mother loves a man--Edward Blake, the Comedian--a man she has every reason to hate. And out of that contradiction, against unfathomable odds, it was you, only you, that emerged. To distill so specific a form from all of that chaos; Your creation is like . turning air into gold. A miracle.
But if my birth is a miracle you, you could say that about anyone.
Yes, anyone in the world. But the world is so crowded with miracles that they become commonplace and we forget. I forget. They stand there in silence. Connected for the first time in years.
Now. Dry your eyes. FROM ABOVE: We see the full CRATER--the ARGYRE PLANITIA. Round, with two, eye-like BOULDERS set side by side, a RIDGE of land curling below . like a smiley-face.
And let's go home.
I've got a large reading ahead. Anything that's emitting that much heat out here, must be a pretty big facility. Adrian.
The engines--
They're icing up, hold on! Dan pulls the stick back. The ship SHUDDERS UPWARD.
We just lost the engines--find something to grab on to! The ship BARELY CLEARS THE CLIFF. BOUNCING hard, it SKIPS across the snow like a stone, finally CRASHING INTO A DRIFT.
The engines are de-icing. You sure I can't fit you with something warmer?
Fine like this.
See this painting? Alexander the Great. Before his conquest of Phoenicia, he struck North for Gordium, where the world's greatest puzzle waited. A great knot, impossible to untie. For a young man determined to rule the world, it was a challenge he couldn't resist. So he sliced it in two with his sword. Lateral thinking, you see. Suddenly the Lynx stands, GROWLS.
What is it, girl? He hits the remote--the TV screens switch to MULTIPLE VIEWS OF Dan and Rorschach, heading toward Karnak.
Ah. It's all right, girl. Everything's all right.
Really, getting even this far is an admirable effort, given their limitations. Of course the ice they're skating on is slippery and thinner than it looks. Let's hope they don't overstep themselves. On the monitors, Dan takes a LASER TORCH to the door.
Let's hope they know when to stop.
Hitler was a vegetarian. If you're squeamish, leave him to me. We won't get a second chance.
Mind your manners.
Dan draws his PEN-LASER.
Adrian, don't make me-- Adrian picks up a GOLDEN SERVING TRAY off the table as Dan FIRES. Adrian DEFLECTS the laser with the tray-- --then DISCUS-SLINGS the tray into Dan's NOSE. Blood SPRAYS, Dan drops to his knees. Adrian turns his back on them, calm.
Now. What can I do for you?
You know! You killed the Comedian! You set up Rorschach! You created Pyramid Industries, hired all those people, gave them cancer and blamed it on Jon!
Yes.
Dammit Adrian, what are you trying to do?
What we always intended--to improve the world. As Adrian speaks, Rorschach sneaks up behind him, with a FORK. He tries to stab Adrian in the back, but Adrian effortlessly dodges the blow, GRABS Rorschach's mask, TWISTS it, then KNEES him in the gut. Rorschach drops to the floor. Adrian starts walking out of the hall. Dan helps Rorschach up and they follow.
I never intended to kill the Comedian-- that was an accident. Part of his duties as a government operative was to keep track of all former masked heroes, make sure there was no rocking of the boat. He must have liked Rorschach because he allowed him to continue to exist. I had thought that the Comedian might be incompetent, but he disproved that hypothesis when he discovered what was really going on. here in Karnak--no easy task. Even my staff was unaware--I made sure to keep each department separate.
The Comedian was appalled by my plan, but still, he understood the scope of what I was trying to accomplish. Frankly, I never thought he'd actually talk. But by the time he visited poor Moloch, he was cracking badly. So I had to kill him.
After Blake, I neutralized Jon--a plan nearly a decade in the works after analyzing confidential psychological profiles which predicted his withdrawal from human existence. By then, Rorschach's mask theory, 'though erroneous, needed to be addressed, so I faked my own assassination--
Why take that risk? What if the hitman shot you first instead of your assistant?
I suppose I'd have to be fast enough to catch the bullet then, wouldn't I? Adrian smiles enigmatically.
After apprehending my own assassin, I shoved a cyanide capsule in his mouth, disposing of him, and soon after that, the journalist Doug Roth, tying up all the loose ends if you will. Then I knew nothing stood in the way of my triumph.
Triumph? Adrian, what are you going to do?
I'm firing a beam of concentrated energy, synthesized from Dr. Manhattan himself, into the hearts of nine key regions around the globe, crossing all traditional politics and ideologies;
Paris, Tehran, Kashmir, Beijing, Taiwan, Pyongyang, London, Jerusalem, New York-- destroying approximately three million people.
Three million people? You're joking.
He's not. Listen to his voice.
Rorschach, he's making it up!
I understand your disbelief, Dan. When I began the plan ten years ago, my moral safeguards gave me pause at the necessary sacrifice. See, the Comedian was correct. What we were doing with the Watchmen was pointless--the savage nature of humankind would inevitably lead to the end of the world. So in order to save the world, I had to trick it--to frighten the world towards salvation with history's greatest practical joke.
By killing millions of people? And when were you planning on doing this?
When? Dan, my dear friend, I am the smartest man in the world--do you seriously think I'd explain my master stroke if there remained even the slightest chance of you affecting it's outcome?
EMPTY_LINE
EMPTY_LINE
EMPTY_LINE
: --as is the News Vendor; the Pakistani and Indian Soldiers; the Chinese Battleships; the Israeli Missile Control Room; Paris; the Great Wall of China. Destroyed.
God Jon, what was that? Jon looks around the street. Even he is awe-struck.
Interference. Cataclysmic interference. Laurie looks up and screams. THOUSANDS OF BLACK SILHOUETTES are IMPRINTED on the STREET and the WALLS. Everywhere. There is no rubble--some buildings have simply disintegrated.
Was it a war? It doesn't seem like--
Not a war. I .don't know what it was. Dr. Manhattan looks up into the sky, studying it.
Take me out of here, Jon. Please.
I'm sorry. This must be very upsetting for you. I have traced the source of the Tachyon particles to Antarctica. Shall we?
Anywhere. Anywhere's better than here.
God. God, he
Impersonated Dr. Manhattan. Murdered millions of people.  Call off your cat. Call off your cat and face me!
Don't you understand? I've ended the war-- I've ended all wars. Because of their fear of ion, I've forced the world into everlasting peace.
By committing the biggest mass murder in history. You have no right to play God!
I wasn't playing God. Just Dr. Manhattan. Suddenly there's a LOUD BEEPING in the hall. The Lynx growls. Adrian switches the monitors to the security cameras which show ion and Laurie materialize in the snow.
Speak of the devil.
Adrian, of course. Who else would have the resources
Wait, this is Adrian's compound? Are you saying he's responsible for this-- Jon walks toward the building, entranced. Distracted.
Yes. Yes, he killed Blake and millions of others. Excuse me, Daniel, I'm talking to Laurie ninety seconds ago
What, Daniel? Millions of others? Jon don't start that crap now, not here!
I'm sorry. It's these tachyons. They're, muddling things up. I'd better follow him
In a burst, he's gone.
No, don't let him escape!
Jon, stop him, he killed millions of people, who knows what else he'll do. Jon walks calmly after Adrian.
Jon, are you okay? You seem drugged.
Yes. Yes, he killed Blake and millions of others. Excuse me, Daniel, I'm talking to Laurie ninety seconds ago
What? Where's Laurie?
I'm sorry. It's these tachyons. They're, muddling things up. I'd better follow him
Jon follows Adrian into the next room.
Adrian, don't be foolish. Even if I can't predict where I'm going to find you, I can turn the walls to glass. The tachyons were clever but it's time to give up Jon spots the Lynx in a METAL CORRIDOR.
Very well. If I must, let us follow this through to the bitter end. ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE WALLS is Adrian, waiting by a CONTROL PANEL. He takes one last look at his Lynx.
Forgive me, girl. Jon enters the corridor with the Lynx; Adrian flicks a SWITCH. The Lynx' FUR STANDS ON END as ENERGY CRACKLES BETWEEN THE METAL WALLS. The Lynx HOWLS.
Adrian? Adrian, don't-- LIGHT BLASTS through Jon and the Lynx--both are OBLITERATED. Adrian peers around the corner, winded by his success.
You know, I really wasn't sure that would work.
Adrian turns. Laurie aims the prison guard's pistol at him.
You're such an asshole. Adrian cries out, LEAPS at her as she FIRES-- --and hits Adrian. He COLLAPSES. Dan and Rorschach find them as Laurie approaches Adrian's body
Laurie, shoot him again! Adrian's hand falls from his chest to the floor, blood trickling, as his PALM OPENS-- --holding a BULLET inside.
Oh shit. Adrian opens his eyes and KICKS her in the stomach, sending her flying back.
LAURIE! If you've hurt her, I'll--
Oh Dan. Grow up. Adrian exits as Dan helps the winded Laurie to her feet. Together, Rorschach, Dan and Laurie follow him back to:
Jon, now 100 FEET TALL, SMASHES THROUGH THE WALL. Adrian crawls desperately away, grasping for his remote on the floor. As Jon approaches him, Jon SHRINKS to six feet.
Restructuring myself was the first trick I learned! It didn't kill me before, did you seriously think it would kill me now? You are nothing but a man. And the world's smartest man means no more to me than its smartest termite! Out of tricks, out of traps, Adrian lifts the remote.
What is that, Adrian? Some new, ultimate weapon?
Yes. Yes, you could say that. Adrian goes back to his wall of screens, watching the news reports. We hear SOUND BITES and IMAGES: "India and Pakistan immediately call for truce," "China stands down," "US withdraws forces," "Israel agrees on cease fire." TEARS stand in Adrian's eyes. He raises his fists in triumph.
I did it. I DID IT! I've saved Earth from Hell. Next, I will elevate her to the vaulting stature of Heaven.
Next? You can't get away with this!
No? Will you expose me, undoing the peace so many have just died for? Morally, you're in checkmate, just like the Comedian was. Jon examines the many screens, taking it all in.
I'm afraid he's correct. Exposing Adrian would only doom the world to nuclear destruction again.
He's right. All we did was fail to stop him from saving Earth.
We we can't say anything about this
You're joking, of course. Rorschach walks toward the exit.
Rorschach, wait a second! Let's talk this out!
Never. Not even in the face of Armageddon. Never compromise. Adrian and Jon's eyes meet--an unspoken communication. Seeing this, Dan runs after Rorschach.
Rorschach! Across the hall, ion materializes between Rorschach and the exit.
Where are you going, Rorschach?
Back to the Owl-Ship. Back to America. People must be told. Evil must be punished.
Rorschach, you know I can't let you do that. Rorschach pauses. Dan is halfway there . Rorschach removes his mask, tears stand in his eyes.
Suddenly you've rediscovered humanity? If you had cared from the start, none of this would be necessary. None of this would have happened. So what are you waiting for? Do it.
Jon WAVES HIS HAND and BLOWS RORSCHACH APART. Dan collapses to his knees, sobbing. Jon contemplates the BURN-MARK where Rorschach stood only seconds ago, then disappears-- --reappearing across the hall where Laurie is. She is also in tears, watching all the horrible footage on the TV screens.
Laurie. I'm leaving this galaxy. For one a little less complicated.
Leaving? I, I thought you regained an interest in human life.
I have. I think maybe I'll create some. Goodbye, Laurie. He kisses her on the cheek--
Jon, I'd hoped to talk to you. I've made myself feel every death, see every innocent face I've murdered to save humanity--you understand, don't you?
Without condoning or condemning, I
And with that, he disappears. Forever.
Across the hall, Dan recovers from mourning Rorschach. He stands, gritting his teeth. Walks toward Adrian.
What's on your mind, Dan?
Your death.
Really. You want to kill me?
Yeah. You might have created peace, but not at the expense of justice. You need to pay for what you've done.
That doesn't sound like you, Dan. That sounds more like Rorschach.
Exactly. Adrian readies himself. Laurie breaks away from the TV screens.
Only you're not Rorschach, are you now? How do you expect to succeed where he failed?
Tell you the truth, Adrian. I don't. Dan FLIES at Adrian, fighting like a madman for his life. His fighting style has changed. Dan's newfound brutality is informed by everything he's learned from Rorschach. About justice. About life. But Adrian is the best. He takes Dan's attacks apart with ease, delivering blows which would kill a man not quite so focused on his goal. In the end, he CATCHES Dan's final strike and TWISTS. Dan's arm SNAPS easily.
Dan! Laurie charges Adrian. With one hand, Adrian blocks her attack, grabs her by the hair and SLAMS her to floor, knocking her out.
Dan falls to his knees, bloody and beaten. Out of tricks, out of time, he searches his belt for something, anything, and finds one last OWL-WING. The WINGS SNAP OUT. Desperate, he
I have to say, I've always thought your choice of an owl was quite juvenile.
Really? I've always liked owls Adrian sees that Dan has pulled one last item from his belt. Adrian STEPS on Dan's WRIST, bones crunching. Dan's HAND falls OPEN, revealing the OWL-SHIP REMOTE.
because you can never hear them coming. BEHIND ADRIAN: FLOODLIGHTS BLAZE, targeting Adrian as the OWL- SHIP CRASHES THROUGH THE WINDOW and into Adrian and Dan. Silence, but for the tinkling of GLASS falling to the floor. Dan tries to stand, but he falls, his left leg shattered. Most of Adrian has been CRUSHED under the ship. He coughs a fine blood spray. Adrian looks over to Dan, dying.
I . don't regret my actions. I know in my heart . I did the right thing.
So do I. Adrian lays back, calm, accepting and dies.
That's it. Careful. Now, pull the stick to the left The ship RISES and TURNS awkwardly in the hall, smashing out more glass.
Now, the thrusters . There. She HITS THE THRUSTERS. The ship FLIES from the control room. It's afterburners IGNITING the room, and Adrian's body.
You sure you don't want a drink?
I'm okay. Thanks. We finally see Laurie now--her hair dyed, appearance changed.
Mom--I just want to get this out of the way . . I know Eddie Blake, the Comedian--I know he was my father. Sally freezes.
I remember. Sally downs her drink, immediately starts making another.
It, it was years later, he stopped by out of the blue, and, and apologized. I don't know, I just couldn't stay mad. It just happened-- Laurie kisses her mother's teary cheek.
Mom. People's lives take them strange places. You never did anything wrong by me. Sally jumps as a CLICK/WHIR SOUND comes from a BOOKCASE.
What the hell is that?
Oh that's Dan. Home from "work." The bookcase SLIDES ASIDE and a blond DAN enters from the secret ELEVATOR. He is trim and confident, cheeks flushed with color. Buttoning up his shirt, he spots Sally.
Oh hi.
Hello, Dan. Excuse me, I should clean up. Sally wipes her runny make-up, goes to the bathroom. Dan and Laurie embrace, kiss.
Any bad guys last night?
There are always bad guys. Even in today's world. Slow, Laurie turns to the window. Looks out at the New York skyline being rebuilt.
Dan.
Hmm?
Will it be alright? The world, I mean. He puts his arm around her shoulder.
As long as no-one ever finds out that Adrian was behind it all, the public will think ion is still up there, watching.
The threat remains, and everything should be fine.
Yeah. Just fine
SEYMOUR! What the hell do you got for me?
We got nothing to write about. Everyone in the country, every country in the world is holding hands now, singing songs about peace and love--it's like we're living in a goddamn global hippie commune !
Um, I guess I can look for stuff in the crank file.
Crank file? Whatever! Take some initiative! Run whatever you like-- Seymour turns to the PILE of submissions known as the crank file, where RORSCHACH'S JOURNAL sits on top. Seymour reaches--
--I leave it entirely in your hands. --and picks up Rorschach's Journal . Just as he's about to open it, we CUT TO BLACK.
