...you're so fuckin' beautiful, you know that...?
I love you, baby...
Bobby!   You in there?
Bobby! [If] you two could just keep your hands off each other for a second--I, I think we got a situation brewin' out front!
It's Jumbo... We gotta go anyway...
 I'll be out in a second, Louis!
What the fuck's goin' on in here?
Okay, Bobkes! Looks like you got everything under control here--so uh, so I'm gonna go outside, take my break!
Yeah--just keep that wide load of yours outta trouble, arright?
Yes, your fuckin' majesty!
What're you doing?!? You gotta behave yourself here!
C'mon, Mr. Green! I didn't do nothing!
Well now you're gonna do nothing someplace else! (louder, to all fighters; pointing:) Now listen--one of these days I'm gonna run this whole block, and I see any you in here again--any you-- I'll bust your fuckin' hole!  Throw `em out on their ass. I gotta go upstairs, drop off my keys with the old man.
Bobby!   Come here!
Mr. Buzhayev, how are you!
So beautiful!   Beautiful!
Listen, Mr. Buzhayev--I gotta go do something right now. But don't worry--everything's in good shape downstairs.
 Yes, good. You take care of things good for us...
Next week, you come by--we talk. Okay? We talk about plans for you.
 Bobby! Where you run off to?!?
Here, take another one! Get another!
Pop, they got enough! What're you doin'?!?
 You want your face out there--it's good exposure. The PC's gonna see this.  C'mon. With both kids.
Thanks, Chief!
You see your brother yet?
 He ain't gonna come.
 He better.
C'mon. What's the big deal anyway? We'll go in, you say hello, then we'll go.
You remember what I tol' you?
Yeah!   Course!
Nobody knows about my father and my brother--not even Jumbo. And it's gotta stay that way, you understand?
Yeah, you tol' me a thousand times. But I been with you for two years, Bobby--I should meet `em by now. We goin' in or not?
RUSSELL DE KEIFER It's me, Russell De Keifer, from across Northern Boulevard, remember? You still bartending that Russian joint, out there in Brooklyn?
Nah.   Nah, I'm managing now.
Yeah. I'll see you `round, arright?
What'd he call you?
 I changed my name--I use my mother's name now. It's better for business. C'mon...
How you doing...
Feels like nothin'. Nah, it feels good! I love trying to, you know, help make the City safer for people and everything...
That's them there. In the corner. Lookit `em--two peas in a pod.
Yeah--I see `em! They don't look that bad though, you know? For cops?  Who're those other guys?
[My] Father's friends--they were all in Korea together.  Biggest bunch of fuckin' stiffs...  Look, don't talk to nobody, we'll get out quicker.
 I ain't gonna embarrass you.
N--I just wanna get out quick, that's all...
Bobby, hey! You, you got off work and everything--
Yeah I did so...congratulations...
Hello.
Pop.  Everybody, this is my girlfriend. Rosario.
Nice to meet you!
This's my brother. And my father.
We gotta talk to you. Alone.
In a house of God, no less? C'mon, get up...
Hello, Bobby. Nice suit you got on.
Your hair's long.
I know. I like it this way.  That why you got me up here?    [To] tell me my hair's too long?
Bobby, I asked Pop to bring you here.
Whatsamatter?
Well... I'm gonna be heading up a new narcotics team, starting this week. A Russian unit, outta PSA 2 in Brighton.
 That's a good hook for you.
Yeah, they need me over there. There's only eleven guys in the whole department that even know the language right now, so...
You ever talk?
I'm old-fashioned. I listen first.
Bobby, we need you to do us a favor.
 A favor? Oh, he needs a favor!   
BOBBY GREEN You cut me off financially, and now you need the favor? `S interesting.
PUDGE--
We're looking at this guy Vadim Nezhinski.
Served time in the Soviet Union for black market activity, come over around 1979.
`S good lookin' boy!
He's dealing H, cocaine, angel dust... Operates out of that club you manage. The El Caribe.
I don't know nothing about that.
No, we know that. We checked up and down the rest of management, too--his uncle, the owner--
The old man?! What, you been watching us?!?
Everybody come up clean. It's just Nezhinski we're lookin' at.
 What the fuck is this?
We need to track how he's bringin' in the product and...we were just hopin' you'd keep your eyes and ears open a little.
You kidding me? Inform for you?!? That's what you wanted me here for?
No, we would never ask you to do that. Just observe, that's all. It's a closed community and you're our only way in right now--
Yeah well, find another way. I got a lot invested in that club and I can't let it get fucked up.
Nothing's gonna get fucked up, Bobby. All it takes is one thing, you know that! One guy to flip, we crack the whole thing!
Bobby, it's important. These ain't dumb guys we're talking about. We don't stop `em up front, coupla years from now, it'll be chaos out there.  We'd be wishing the Italians'd come back.
[You] Fuckin' broadsided me... Everything's about the goddamned job with you.
Whole city's falling apart, Bobby-- don't you got any sense of responsibility at all? 
C'mon... Get off your fuckin' high horse and bust somebody else's balls.
 All right, go downstairs. Lemme talk to him.
Thanks for coming.
You're welcome.
Just be careful out there next coupla weeks.
'S that supposed to mean?!?
Joseph!
Congratulations. You got me up here.
I knew you wouldn't help us. I told your brother, I said, `no point even bringing him down here.'
Good.   Then now you know.
Hold on a second--lemme ask you a question. That girl of yours downstairs--she Puerto Rican?
Yeah.   I like the dark meat.
She hooking you up?
 Why, you want some?
Yeah, keep laughing--your mother, rest in peace, I think she was too easy on you.
I gotta go, Pop. I'll see you `round.
Everyone?   Everyone!
You take a picture, it'll last longer.
C'mon, let's get outta here, [we'll] go party with Jumbo.
We could stay if you want, baby. They don't like me, I don't care-- you're better than them anyway--
 We're goin'. C'mon. 
I'm Deputy Commissioner Spiro GIAVANNIS--
You know, we look around in these troubled times, and in moments like this we need leaders, men and women who can bring order back to our great communities. We're here this holiday season to give thanks for one of these men, our Russian brother, Joseph Grusinsky.
...Joseph, many of us've known your father, Deputy Chief Burt Grusinsky, for many years, and I know he wants to say a little something. Chief?
Thank you. You know, I used to tell my kids, "work first, play later," and my son Joseph really took it to heart. He's been a real fighter over the years... He overcome his mother's passing, and the dyslexia--eventually wound up graduating John Jay as salutatorian and distinguished himself many times.  Anyway, you've shown yourself to be very brave and selfless, and I'm just, I'm very proud here tonight.
Thank you everybody for coming-- happy Thanksgiving. Before I say anything else... We got some bad news this morning.  
JOSEPH GRUSINSKY One of our Irish brothers was killed in the line of duty last night--detective Edward Conlon was gunned down serving a warrant on Northern Boulevard. The clock's about to strike ten, so I thought we might give a moment of silence to remember.
I'm gonna be like Madonna. You think I'm like Madonna...?
We're both Leos, you know.
You're just like her, baby...
I talked to my mother yesterday. She said she'd be okay by herself, so I could move in if I want...
That's cool.
 Your family ain't gonna be too happy, though. I saw how they looked at me.
It's all right--they don't like nobody outside their own little world.
Yeah...you know, cops're fucked up. In my neighborhood, if they ain't taking money, they're beating on you for no reason...
My brother and my father ain't like that. It's just--the whole thing ain't for me, that's all.
You know how gorgeous you are?
WAIT--
I got you something.
What is it?
Open it up!
...it's beautiful...
...you're so good to me...
I love you... And someday we're gonna get a big house together, in New Jersey, with a lotta kids...
Only if you behave yourself...
Uh oh--[The] party's really gonna get started now!
Yeah--let's all play Spin my Pickle!
Hey Falsetti!    You get what we wanted? 
 Indeed I did, my friend!  See, I woulda been here sooner, `cept I hadda go across town, lose all the cops--
There weren't no cops following us!
Shut your mouth! You wouldn't recognize `em--they were, they were all undercover.
Anyway, I got a little of what everybody asked for here. I got uppers, downers, hash, mescaline, some blow-
Any Spanish Fly in there for you?
Yeah, you need that, not me!
And what's with the suit anyway? You look like a monkey in the circus!
I'm goin' up to see Buzhayev tonight. I think he's gonna ask me to buy into the club.
Yeah? Well, you know what you should do, you should turn it into a fag joint and then maybe they'll let ya in!
I'll show you a fuckin' faggot!
Everybody, I gotta be at El Caribe in an hour, so get ready!
The spot's got one main entrance, two rear fire exits. All of `em'll be covered.
Good. I just wanna make sure we take it easy in there. We don't want no panic.
What if your brother's inside?
It's his day off. He ain't gonna be there.
What if he is?    We still go?
What's it gonna be?
Bobby! Our daughter and her husband Eli come by for dinner. You want something, some tea?
No no, I'm all right... Hi everybody...
Everything's really rockin' tonight. Line's halfway `round the block.
Yes, it's good...
You wanted to talk to me?
You know, maybe we open another spot next year. Across from Brighton.
'S a good move.
We need someone in charge here full- time, then. And we think you do a great job.
I appreciate that. You know, I been thinking `bout it--I'd like to become a partner here too--buy in with you.  I mean, I got a lot of ideas.
 Already! He's got so many ideas!
Well, I just think we could do more. Maybe expand into Sheepshead Bay. I know a good spot--we add a restaurant there, get the spill- over. Like what your brother did, in Miami.
That's gonna take a lot of money, Papa. Your fur business can support that right now?
My son-in-law, he worries people take advantage of me.
I can understand that. But I got money to invest--we could make it something real special over there. Do what I did downstairs--you know, bring in name DJs on different nights?  What do you think?
Yes. Together we do it. You come to our Thanksgiving again, on Thursday?
Yeah, sure.   I'll come.
Good--we talk more, at the dinner.
Give him, for tonight!
Nah nah, no thank you...
My brother! How'd it go?  Ho, well! I'm guessing it went pretty good then!
Listen--I get this done, I want you to be a host. In one of our spots.
That's my specialty. I'm whaddaya call, a people person!
Well, just make sure you get your old co-workers from the Health Department to give us a pass on the kitchen.
Yeah, no problem--half of `em got rats as pets anyway.
Where's Rosario?
Goddamnit... [She's] With that fuckin' animal again.
She's a player, Bob. You know how it goes.
Look at him... I'll tell you, [when] this is my place, we'll kick his fuckin' ass right outta here--
 Bob! You gotta watch your mouth! I mean, he don't scare me, but uh, but trust me, I know.
Yeah, you know a lot.
I do, I'm serious!  Last year, one of his guys was gonna flip? Jesus Christ, what I saw...
Nezhinski dragged him into the toilet. They stood him up against the wall and held him--
They fuckin' pulled down his pants, and I swear to God, Nezhinski just cut it off.
Worst thing I ever seen in my life, Bob.  Anyway, cops found his head in the middle of Brighton Avenue the next day--fuckin' dick was in his mouth.
You sure it wasn't your dick?
Yeah, that's funny.  You sure it wasn't your mouth?
Shit... I'll be right back.
Hi, honey!
Bobby--c'mon, join us! I wanna talk to you!
This is the fuckin' guy right here. Practically owns the place.
Everything all right with you?
 Things're goin' good.
That's real good... `Cause you gotta be happy, you know? All my guys, I tell `em, the mind and the body, they're connected. That's how you stay sharp.
This's "Kid Quick" you're talking to, dude. Best fuckin' middleweight in the Ukraine.
He don't look like a middleweight no more.
You know Bobby, my uncle upstairs, he, he likes you a lot. Practically thinks you're one of his kids.
Your uncle's a great man. Smart man.
Yeah... Smart smart stupid. Got his head buried in books all day, `stead of the real world...
Listen uh, I come to you, I tell you I got some friends bringin' a load in here, maybe something big-- I'm just talking now--they bring it in, how do you feel about that?
Your uncle loses his license, he ain't gonna be too happy.
Well, upstairs don't gotta know everything, am I right? Place gets packed every night, everybody wins.
You know, you should think about comin' in with us. You're popular-- you could help us...expand a little. A lotta money in it.
Yeah...I'll think about that. Rosario--I wanna talk to you.
Go ahead.   We'll talk.
It go good upstairs, baby?
You gotta stop dealing. You hear what I'm telling you?
You hear what I said?
Yeah, I heard. But I need the money right now, Bobby. And I'm not gonna rely on you for EVERYTHING--
Just hold off then, for a little while. Okay? I got my reasons.
I love you...
Everybody! Get your hands on your head and don't fuckin' move!  Turn off that music. Right now!
Holy shit! Get the extinguishers-- call paramedics!
Gimme your shit!
Hey! I saw that! Get your hands on your fuckin' head!
Jessie!   This one just ingested!
Arright, open up--a little charcoal, to absorb the toxin...
Give everybody a toss. G.Q.--
Too much pizza, right there.
Turn around...    Turn around!
What is this?  Want me to double your money? Huh?
Okay.   It's doubled now, how's that.
You got anything in there?
Jesus, that cop's crazy!
Hey! Fat Albert! Shut your fuckin' mouth!
You got a cross AND a Jewish star on you?
The cross is for good luck.
What's the star for?
That one's for God.
Coupla dimes on `em--cocaine, a little PCP.
Okay, let's go. You. And you--  You're under arrest, possession and sale of narcotics--
Your boy's gonna turn. And then we'll come back for you.
Jesus Christ, what the hell's goin' on in here?
Russian guy fuckin' slashed himself!
Where you going? I was the one who got you outta there!
Thanks a lot.    I appreciate it.
You're a real big shot, aren't you! You see what happened in there last night? Hey--I'm talking to you!
You know, you and your girlfriend're only getting off `cause of your brother. Up to me, you'd sit in there another couple days.
Okay, I'll go thank him too then. He comes in, raids the fuckin' place--now I gotta go beg `em not to fire me--
Fire you?! From what? Probably the best thing that ever happened to you!
Fuck you, Pop.    Fuck the both of you's.
Don't EVER speak to me like that again. You hear me? I'll rap you right in the mouth!
You fuckin' touch me!? You gonna fuckin' touch me?!?
No no--it's okay. Say hello...
Now--we go this week to the field, okay? To ride the horses? Go to Mama.
Mr. Buzhayev... I'm real sorry about what happened the other night.  [If] I was working, maybe I would've been able to do something, but... Anyway, I'm sorry.
It's not your fault...
You can't always control everyone in your family...  My nephew, he don't come back to the club anymore.
You don't mind my saying, I think that's probably the right thing to do.  Things get back to normal, I'm hoping we could get started on what we talked about.
 We need time for the bad publicity to go away.
Mr. Buzhayev, my getting arrested ain't gonna be a problem. I don't got a record--
I know.   I don't worry about any of that.
I used to teach chemistry before I come over here, and now I have the fur store, and this. One thing I learned here, you can always start over. So don't worry--someday, we do it. Okay? Someday.
Yeah...   All right...
Food is ready!
You take some time off, everything will be fixed in a little bit. Then you come back. I pay you for the time. Come on...
He stabbed himself, he was a bundle guy. Mighta known how they're movin' it. See, that's the key--
We waited `til it was your day off.  We had to go--I'm sorry.
You had to hit that spot.
Nezhinski was seen there, Bobby! What am I supposed to do--announce it in advance, compromise the whole thing?  C'mon.
I had plans down there.
Yeah, well, I tried. What do you want from me, anyway? You know, you're standing there feeling sorry for yourself, but you wouldn't be in this shit if you didn't fuck around in the first place.
You got real balls saying that to me. I made something for myself, and you come in and fuck it up? Just `cause I'm not trying to be like you? And Pop--
Bobby, you're the one acting like you're above it all all the time!  
JOSEPH GRUSINSKY Fuckin' around with your little Puerto Rican all day--
What did you call her?
You heard me. Have some fucking class for once.
You piece of shit...
 [You] go around like you're a big shot... You're a joke! Grow up already! Fuckin' loser...
You come at me like that...?  Don't come around me no more--I don't wanna have to look at your fuckin' face ever again.
Fine with me, you motherfucker!
I don't know, Joe--forgive me, but uh, your brother... Ever since your mother got sick--
 Do me a favor, don't get involved.  We'll pick this up tomorrow. I'm gonna go home.
Get us onto the expressway... Move!
You gotta keep your hands up! Keep your hands up!
Chief...?
Which kid is it?
It's Joseph. He's at St. John's Hospital.  It don't look good right now.
You want us to contact your other son--?
No.   Go on, I'll be right out...
What're you lookin' at?!?  It's got nothing to do with you...
Baby, you got a little bruise here--
That ain't nothing.
I got a bruise too, you know--right here!
So Bob, I think we fold.  We fold, right?
We'll see you and bump you two C's.
 We will?
Siegfried and Roy, baby! Two fucking queens!
Bobkes, I love you!
Bobby--it's for you!
Who is it?
I was the one told him to keep goin'!
Hello?
Bobby, it's Michael Solo--I got some bad news.  Your brother's been shot. He's at St. John's--they're workin' on him now. I just thought you should know.
Is--is he gonna be all right?
Listen, your father's coming--I gotta go. But he's at St. John's.
Bobby?
My brother was shot...they're operating on him now.
You gotta go see him--be there for him and your father.
Game's over, everybody.
That's right.    I gotta go.
Bobkes--?   What's wrong?
What're you doing?
I wanna come too. For you--
No--it's gonna be a fuckin' scene. I'll call you later.
BOBBY--
Don't argue.
Louis, lock up and take her home.
 Sure, Bob. Everything cool?
Yeah, no--I just remembered I gotta do something, that's all--
Hey--HEY!     What the fuck?!?
Take it easy, TAKE IT EASY! Calm down and everything'll be, uh, non compos mentis!
Pop?
Pop, he all right?
What do you want? You stayed out of it--you got what you wanted. Why don't you go somewhere and pick a fight--you're good at that!
Chief, the union sent a shrink over for you--
Nah, I don't want that crap.
Hello, your honor. Commissioner. Thank you for coming.
Chief Grusinsky, an attack on an officer is an attack on society. Whoever did this, in a clean neighborhood like that--they gotta be hunted down like animals.
We'll get `em, your honor. I'm gonna come back in and run it myself--we'll get `em.
The shot went in his cheek and come out through the jaw. It missed his brain, thank God.
He was real lucky--considering.
 I need to see him...
Bobby--that ain't a good idea.  I probably should've told you not to come down here--there're a lotta things going on right now.
You guys blaming me for this? Is that it?
Listen, I ain't judging you--I called you `cause I thought you had a right to know. But we're gonna be going hard after Nezhinski--and maybe some other people you're close to. Like that girl you know--
That's bullshit--she's clean.      You fuckin' keep away from her.
Sorry. Nobody's allowed in except immediate family.
Yeah.   That's me.
You got some I.D.?
Good evening. As a friendly reminder, visiting hours will be over in five minutes. Thank you.
Says here your name is "Green."
Look--I'm his brother, you fuckin' hard-on!
I'm sorry.
Hey!
It's okay.
He's alone. Your father just left for the precinct.
Sir...?
Sir, I'm sorry--I.C.U. visiting hours are over.
...Feels like it was my fault...
Where'd you run off to, like a Jew? You got outta there, it became like a real zoo. The spics--  `Scuse me--the P.R.s, they're goin' nuts for the money--picka picka picka picka--and the girls, they're screamin', and I'm keepin' everybody in line. I'm fuckin' bustin' heads, like Bruce Lee--I'm fuckin' bustin' heads--
Oh, `scuse me, sorry about that.
Hercules, do me a favor--before you kill a waitress, go pay the check.
Arright. But I'll tell you Bobkes, nobody else could ever do for you what I did.
Don't tell Louis nothing about what happened. Far as he knows, my family moved away, [a] long time ago.
I ain't ever gonna say nothing! I just thought...maybe he could cheer you up a little.
Hey, look who's here!
Hey Vadim...  We were just gettin' something to eat.
 You make it through that bust okay?
I didn't have nothing on me.
Glad to hear it.
Your uncle's got some problems now, though. 
 He does what he gotta do, I do what I gotta do. He don't own me.
 Baby--why don't you go keep Jumbo company, make sure he leaves a tip.
`Kay...
Hi, Bobby!
You know-- (moves closer; WHISPERED:) I still got my shit coming in. Some of us think you could help get it out there.
It's a little dangerous right now, don't you think?
We got a lot of muscle behind us. Lotta muscle.
Muscle--?
That's right.
A cop got hit today. They ain't never gonna sit still for that.
Police are a fuckin' joke, dude-- the Mickey Mouse ain't gonna do nothing.
Bobby, those cops--they, they ain't no problem.
You see this? I got this on the inside, at Tchita. You earn these.  So don't worry--we'll get `em all. Cut off the head, the body'll fall, right? You keep on doin' it `til they get the message.  We got all their names. On a list.
 I'll see you around...
Everybody! Our little "A" House got another coupla stiffs today, so it's time for another poem! (catcalls; reads from a pad) "The people of Brooklyn have been volleyed and thundered; at last the number slaughtered has reached one hundred!"
I need to find Deputy Chief Grusinsky.
Oh, uh, he's on the second floor, I think. In the muster room.
Pop, I gotta talk to you.
I'm working.
It's important--I got information.
It's about you.
It's bad.
Jesus Christ, you gotta be kidding me!
Nezhinski got a hit list? On us?!?
Yeah...
We gotta go bust `em, Burt--right now.
No. They'll be back on the street in a day. We gotta try and catch `em with their hands full--find out where they got the real weight. Then we can move.
That could take us forever!
Doesn't matter. It's our only play.
I say we go hit `em all. Wipe `em out, suicide-by-cop--
What're you talkin' about?! C'mon, don't be a first-class schmuck! 
But we don't got the time to infiltrate `em--
Then we make the time!  Look, I want you all to understand something--we don't ever play in the dirt here, okay? Not ever, no matter what!  You piss in your pants, you only stay warm for so long.
What about callin' in the Feds? They got a lot more juice than we DO--
Bunch of college boys from Kansas. We protect our own here.
Pop, Nezhinski's been talkin' about a shipment he's got comin'. Maybe that's how you get to him.
How you know about that, Bobby?
 They been wanting me to buy in for a while.
Well, maybe that's it, then. If we can get him--  To set something up, maybe one of our uncles could move in--
 It'd have to be him--
Forget it, both of you.
What do you mean, set something up?
BOBBY--
You'd go set up a buy with `em, just like they've been asking you to. We follow you to the spot, bust `em a week later. That way, your name's clean, nobody knows you're involved--
That's too dangerous for him! We don't know how solid his cover is out there!  That girlfriend of yours, she knows about you, right? So can we just get back to the discussion please?
Pop?
What?
You could trust her.
Good. I'm glad. But it's not happening. So forget it.
But...but you could get killed--
Don't worry about me, just worry about yourself, arright? Anything happens with your brother I'll call you. Goodbye. 
Goodbye!
Everything okay?  They said on the television your brother was doing better.
Me and my mother, we said a prayer for him.
Your mother's real important to you, ain't she. You'd do anything for her.
Yeah, I guess...
You thinking about your brother? About your family?  There was nothing you could do...
Go back to sleep...
Bobby? It's all gonna work out... You'll see...
You been up to see my brother...?
Yeah. Your father's still with him- -we were just gonna go back to the PSA. Try and figure out a tac plan on Nezhinski.
...How's that been goin'...?
We don't got much yet, but we'll do our best.  You all right?
Well I... I been thinking...if you could keep it confidential...?  I'd make the connection for you.
C'MON--BOBBY--
They trust me--we could go in large, use my money for the buy, they won't suspect anything--
It's too dangerous--you heard your father.
 He don't gotta know anything about it. Does he?
If anything went wrong, he'd never forgive us.
I know.  It's just--I realized...  ....my father dies `cause of all this, I couldn't live my life knowing I coulda done something.  I know the same is true for you.   I know it is.
So please--can we do this...?
Hello?
Hey.  It's Bobby Green.  I decided--I wanna buy in.
How much we talkin' `bout here, dude?
Fifty k, to start.
Oh, [the] man's gonna be good with that. How `bout tomorrow night?
Sounds good.
Arright. We'll meet at El Caribe, `round midnight?  That way, you could dance a little, say hi to your girlfriend...
Okay.   I'll see you tomorrow.
Most expensive phone call I ever made.
We'll get it back for you.
Now listen: from now on, you'll get all your information through this, at an undisclosed location. Your contact with us is over after you leave here.
Just be smart about things. Okay? You get burnt and we gotta put you in protection, it's still better than winding up dead. An informant dies, they talk about you for a day. A week later, ain't no one remembers your name.  Moral of the story is, don't die. You understand? 
You need to promise me something, though. You won't investigate my girlfriend--she's, she don't know any better.
She won't be a target. Just make sure she don't open her mouth.
I'll take care of it.
You know we known you your whole life, kid? Good luck.
Hi, Bobby. It's me. Just wanted to see how you were doing--I guess you're at the hospital now... I hope your family's doing good... Okay, I love you... Jumbo says hello too...
Your wire's in here--we're gonna follow the signal. Find the stash house and make the deal, you leave the rest to us.
You gonna leave me all alone out there?
 I ain't gonna lie to you.   There's always a risk.
Your cover's blown, call for help-- don't try and be a hero. Just get outta the way--place could turn into a butcher shop. Talk about pussy--that'll be our signal to come in early.
You come up with that one all by yourself?
 Just do the deal and get out. Bear in mind, your life is in that lighter. Anything goes wrong, the department'll get word to your father.
And oh--G.Q. told me to tell you-- your brother's coming along real good. They reset his jaw and sometimes he's awake.
Bobby--what're you doing here?
I--I need to talk to you.
I'm coming home in a little bit.
Bobby?
I--I'm gonna inform. For the police.  I'm gonna help `em set up Nezhinski.
What...?
I had to do it, Rosario. These motherfuckers--they were gonna come after my father.
But Nezhinski finds out, he'd kill YOU--
He ain't ever gonna find out.    He ain't ever gonna know.
But what if something goes wrong? What's gonna happen to you?!? 
I don't know... I'd, I'd probably have to go into protection.
Oh my God...
But that's never gonna happen!
How could you not even talk to me about it...?
Rosario, listen--I had to do it.
I had to do it...
Everything's gonna be all right... Don't worry, it'll be all right...
Bobkes! My brother! I been calling you all week! Where you been?!? We missed you!!!
Yeah... Sorry, buddy--I got some legal shit to deal with, from the raid... But I ain't forgot about you--I'll be back soon.
Yeah well, without you around I hadda lower myself here by hangin' out with Freddie!
Bobby, hey! Mr. Buzhayev'd love to see you, I'm sure--want me to tell him you're here?
No, it's okay--I'll talk to him later...
Where's Vadim.
Oh, he don't come in here no more--
 Well, I got fifty grand in here. And it don't move `less I deal with the man himself.  So [if] you're interested, I wanna see your stash, right now. No bullshit.
Be on the boardwalk in a hour...
And dude--this don't shake out...
Hello?
Hello?
Hello...?
Dude!    Hey, dude!
Get in!
Put your hands out, where I could see `em.
You know me.
Shut your fuckin' mouth and do it!
Turn at the light...
Go left.    Again.
Let's go.   No one's on us.
You needed to come here tonight...?
What's the matter, ain't Pavel good enough for you?
That's all the money I got.    And I ain't gonna leave it alone.
It's all there.     Fifty grand.
Where'd you get this?
From my savings. From El Caribe and Rasputin.
 That buys you three keys in here.  With the crack on the street, it's worth two hundred k. Maybe more.
All the shit I get here is at least eighty-six percent pure. And we got a lot more comin' in--a LOT more. In a way nobody could ever trace.
The whole city'll be sucking our glass soon--you'll see. We push the Guineas out, the Domos'll work for us.
Sounds good.
You're breathing heavy.
I took a little taste.
You know, I seen fighters--they breathe like that, means they get nervous.  You nervous?
I'm clean.   
BOBBY GREEN You wanna search me again, you go `head. I just wanna make this deal and go home.
You got both matches and a lighter.
I'm gonna get pussy from this...
 What you say...?
[When] this deal goes down, I'm, I'm gonna get a lotta pussy...
He got a wire!  Kill this motherfucker, right now!
Hands on your heads! On the floor!
EMPTY_LINE
1 0 - 1 3 ! 10-13! 10-13!
I'm with you!     I'm with YOU!
Hold it right there! Hands on your head!
Don't shoot!
Where's my goddamned kid?!?
He is a dead man...
 Shut up! Get down!
Jesus.
You guys go on a bust like this and you don't tell me about it? You think I'm born yesterday?
I guess we do.
You're a real comedian! He's gonna need to be in protection now!
I'll be all right, Pop.
 Well, I guess I don't have a say in anything anymore. Anyway... You did it. You did it and it took real balls.  But now you're burnt--and we gotta get you someplace safe, keep you under wraps for awhile.
I need you to get my girlfriend, Pop. I need her to come with me. 
I'll get them to take care of that. Just go get yourself fixed up-- that's the most important thing.
Bobby, hi! Spiro Giavannis, Deputy Commissioner. Glad to see you made it out here today!
Yeah. They let me come--long as I brought these guys with me.
How's the leg treating you?
Good... It's rehabbing good, for only nine weeks.  Don't matter, I wasn't no Fred Astaire before.
Anyway, it ain't nothing compared to my brother, so...
Everybody, they'll be here any minute!
Bobby, I'm gonna go outside for a minute, have a smoke--
Just hold on, `til he gets here.
You got any idea what you're gonna be doing after the trial?
I'm not sure yet... We been thinking about moving down to Miami. Guy I used to work for, his brother's got a place down there.
Gee, that's great. Well listen, you need any help, you give us a call. `Cause we can be part of your family too.
A lotta kids here, lotta family... It's nice, ain't it...?
You know how happy I am you're with me?
Yes...
Here they are!
`Be right back...
Wow, fella! You look great! (pointing to his own EYE) Your eye--does it hurt?
Only when I look at you!
Hey, Bobby...
I'm real glad you're home...
Everyone, let's, let's move inside-- there's plenty to eat!
Joseph--we got some things we need to discuss, when you get the chance.
We could do it now if you want, Pop. In the den.
Bobby, I'm gonna go back to the motel.
What're you talking about? They got a lot of food over there--why don't you go eat something?
 N--I'm gonna go back.
 You fucked up?
Bobby--you should hear this too, for the trial.
We gotta straighten this out later.
Nezhinski's cache was huge, about 40 keys--yayo, some angel dust too.
We're gonna try and turn him, get him to tell us how they're bringing it in. But don't worry--we'll make sure he does plenty of time.
He ain't gonna be reliable, Pop.
Well, you marry an ape, you don't complain about the stench of bananas.
Where is he?
He's at Rikers. Tucked in, nice and comfy. We're taking him to the A.D.A. next week, for a meeting.
I wanna go with you on that. See his fuckin' face.
I'll tell you, though--streets're dead. Junkies're waitin' out there for something big, no question.
That's `cause we got their number one. Dried it up at the source.
That don't mean nothing.
What's that, Bobby?
There's a whole network full of suppliers. The organization goes deep.
Bobby--you done a lot for us already. You don't gotta get involved in this anymore. Okay?
I asked him to come in, Joe. If he's gonna have to testify, he should know all this.
This's police business, Pop--you gonna make him an honorary member of the Force now?
I'll be outside if you need me.
BOBBY--  What was said in there, he--he didn't mean it.
Well, why's he goin' back to work so soon, anyway? He ain't ready.
No--it's better this way. I don't want him sitting around with nothing to do, feeling useless--
Hey, c'mere.  A lotta people been talking. About how good you did.  And I think maybe...considering the alternatives...  ...maybe you might wanna think about joining the Department.
POP--
I could pull some strings, get you through the academy with an early LEAVE--
No, come on! I don't want that!  What I did, I did for you guys, this once. I got my own plans.
Wait--Don't go yet--
 Take me back to the motel.
Can't you put some clothes on him?
Rosario?    Rosario!
WHERE THE FUCK IS SHE?!?
Bobkes!!!
C'mon, honey--let's dance!
The cops're right outside--let's go.  I said, let's go!
You don't gotta yell at me, Bobby. (starts to move to DOOR) ...[I] was just trying to have a little fun for once, that's all...
Lou--no more of this for her.   It's too fuckin' dangerous now.
 Sure, Bobkes. I mean, she come here.
Wait!   Lemme get my coat at least!
You know Bob, everyone's been askin' `bout you. We was all real surprised to hear about your family- -I mean, your father's like J. Edgar Hoover--
Yeah--we'll talk later, buddy--I'll call you. But right now I need to get her outta here.
You gotta put everything in jeopardy? Huh?
No! I was just dancing! I didn't say nothing!
You know, I don't think you realize how serious this is?  
BOBBY GREEN  We gotta ride this out, `til this fuckin' thing is over. `Til I can get things back on track.
Bobby, what do you want from me? I can't go out, I can't do nothing-- it's like I'm in a jail--
I know. But I'm workin' on it, I am.  Soon as the trial's over and I get my money back outta impound-- everything'll get better, you'll see.
It's just, I feel...I feel like it's just you and all those cops all the time. And they look at me like I'm a piece of shit.
Rosario--once this's done, we'll go down to Miami... [It'll] be a new thing for us--a lotta opportunities...  I'll talk to Mr. Buzhayev about working for his brother down there. We'll get your mother to come too-- I'll even talk to Jumbo about it.
C'mon... Let's go back--this'll all be over soon. I promise...
I'll go in the lead car. You stay with him `til we get to the A.D.A.'s.
You got it...
We heard all about you in the news. We were all very sorry about your brother.
Thank you... You know Mr. Buzhayev, I come to see you today `cause...with everything that's gone on, I don't think it's a good idea for me to stay in New York anymore. I was hoping maybe you could ask your brother if I could work with him, down in Miami. On his restaurant.
I could talk to him. I think he would like you very much.
I'd appreciate it.
We're going to be very sad if you're going. Having you here in this house meant a lot to us. You know, my wife and me, we have only daughters.
You always been very important to me too.  I should probably go now.
Bobby--you'll always be welcome back here.
They did good.    On his face.
Shut your fuckin' mouth.
He makes a deal today, maybe my brother don't gotta take the stand... Least that's something...
Give me that lighter.
Holy shit!
Stop the fuckin' car!
Hello?   What's the matter? Huh? 
Jesus! Listen to me--you and Jack get someplace safe. Let ESU take care of it--I'm gonna go get your brother.
You know, my Aunt's in Miami. We probably could stay with her for a little bit `til we get settled.
Yeah, maybe. Why don't we give `em all these bags to throw out--it's becoming a mess.
What's goin' on?
Nezhinski's out.
What--?
Your brother was taking him to the A.D.A. and they got ambushed. They hit three of our guys.
Jesus...   What about--
Your brother's fine. We gotta get you moved--you've been here too long.
You need to pack up. 
You see something out there?
Nah, we're good. It's just, I just realized--I know this neighborhood. I used to come with my father, to work on the plumbing, for the houses--brought me along to do the talking. He only spoke Russian his whole life...  Anyway, it's all changed now.
One more minute, Chief.
Arright...
Pop?   Joe come close this morning?
I don't know... I heard he did good, though. You know, with everything that's happened--who knows? Maybe all this'll bring us closer together someday. 
BURT GRUSINSKY Once this is over, you and your brother, you'll talk, you'll work things out.
Yeah, maybe.   But you know the way he is.
Bobby--your brother, I think he probably feels a little guilty, with everything you did, with you in protection now... But he appreciates what you've done--I know he does.
Look, I'm just trying to keep us together here, that's all. That's all I want.
 I know, Pop.
 Okay...  We'll move `em to Corona. I'll lead the line.
It's really coming down...
Bobby--I think I left my watch at the hotel--
Hey--Vitt--I think somethin's on our right!
Get down!
They got a hit on! Get support, now!
Rosario!   You hurt?
Pop, lay back!
I got him!   I got the sonofabitch!
Don't fuckin' look at him! I said don't--back up! Don't look at him...
Bobby?   Could I call my mother...?
No I.D. on the guys in the car. Probably illegals. But Mike--  --We had that place locked up tight. How they knew where they were, I go no idea.
 We gotta get you to a secure location, Bobby--
Does my brother know yet?
 He's taking it very hard.  They had to sedate him.
Then you gotta take me to him...  I wanna go see him...
Joseph?
...I'll catch `em, Bobby. Don't worry...
They're gonna need us to identify the body...
I don't know if I can do that.   I MEAN--  I saw him die...
I wanna stay close to you from now on, Joe...  I wanna stay with you...
We know mere words cannot suffice in this time of tragedy. We're so very sorry about your loss...
Now I'm told you're going to be handling the arrangements for tomorrow's service--?
 That's right...
Could you come with me please?  We'll be right back.
You gonna fuckin' catch these guys?
You ain't got nothing, do you.
All our uncles on the street been hearing about a big deal, goin' down maybe Monday or Tuesday.  They don't know where yet, but...we got a feeling--[now that] Nezhinski's out, he's gonna be there.
 You gotta find that spot...
You and your brother don't gotta worry about any of that. Just take the time you need--
MIKE--
I'll be ready to come back and head it up. I'll be ready and, and we'll get `em.  After the funeral.
Bobby... I'm real glad you're with me now...
Course...
You know, I was...I was jealous of you, [for a] long time.
...I always did what Pop wanted. And you were free...
No.... I did it to hurt him...   I disappointed him...
Gentlemen?
EMPTY_LINE
...It's all right... I'll be all right...
I can't live like this no more, Mike... They destroyed my family.  There's a deal going down, I... I wanna help...
You're a civilian, Bobby. Ain't no way.
I, I could join you.
My Pop tol' me you pull guys outta the Academy, guys with special knowledge, [and] make `em cops? You could do that.
Bobby, come on--you got your own life to live--
 No.   I can't do nothing else now.
Then you gotta understand--this ain't something you do just for a vendetta. You gotta go back to the Academy when you're done, you gotta commit yourself.
I know.
Gimme a couple days--I'll talk to the P.C.
Joe, I'm gonna join you. I just decided...  Okay?
This is where I belong...
I wanna talk to you about something.
I'm thinking of...maybe joining the Force.
I mean, I help find Nezhinski, we don't gotta live like this the rest of our lives--moving every three fuckin' days...
Bobby, I don't know if I can be here no more.
What're you talking about? I just got through telling you--
No, I think maybe it's time I leave then--go down to Miami on my own, with my mother.
 I can't let you do that. That ain't safe for you. 
You know that's not true, Bobby. They're not after me.
Hold on a second--I know what I'm talking about'd be a change.  It'd be a big change for us.
BOBBY--
But we could make a life here. This'd be something we could build on. We could raise a family, and...
Pretty soon you'd fit in.
No I wouldn't...  They know what I was--what I was DOING--
They'll accept you if we're TOGETHER--
Bobby!
I gave it all up for you and you changed everything!
Gave it up? Gave up what?  GAVE UP WHAT, ROSARIO?!?  
BOBBY GREEN What fuckin' life did you have? You're a fuckin' cokehead--look at you!
 And you were clean, Bobby? We were TOGETHER--
Well, maybe I was a piece of shit too! Wasting my goddamned time!
How could you say that...? We had PLANS--
Wake up!   All that was nothing!
No! Now is nothing! Look at what's happened to your family, Bobby--your father, he's dead--look at your brother! It could all happen to you!
My brother's gonna be all right-- and nothing's gonna happen to me.
That's what you said before.
Hey--where you goin'--
Get off me!   Let me go!
What the fuck you doin'?
Get off me!
Get off me--I don't want it! It's not what I want!
All right. Why don't you just calm down and think about it a little.
You think about it, you'll feel different. You'll understand. And in time, we'll look back on all this and you'll see I was right. Look--I love you.  Why don't you go get some rest?
We appreciate your patience, Bobby.
The Commissioner is here now, and he's ready to go.
We're all very sorry about your father--he was a great man.
Thank you, sir. I'm gonna try and do my part too, now.
Good.   Raise your right hand.
"I hereby pledge and declare..."
"I, Robert Green, hereby pledge and DECLARE--
"--that I will support and defend the Constitution, both of the United States government and the State of New York, to the best of my ability..."
"...I will faithfully discharge my duties in the rank of rider in the New York City Police Department. So help me God."
...But we got our guys   out there, working the street all   over? I mean, they coupeing or   they working?
Everybody's out there, bustin' balls, left and right! What else you want us to do?
Bobby, a Rosario Diaz's been callin' for you. She says she needs to talk to you.
Thanks.   I'll call her back.
Well, you tell Narcotics Queens we got an A-1 sale hanging over our head and either they help us or we fuckin' take it out on `em later!
What about Nezhinski's uncle? That clubowner--Marat Buzhayev?
Clean. We tailed him for weeks. Goes out with his grandkids, takes `em horseriding at Floyd Bennett Field... Checks on his fur business from time to time--we even looked at some of the coats and tore `em apart. Turned out to be fake sable, if you could believe it.
It's comin' up quick, we don't know anything... We're gonna lose it...
Joe--this is still new territory for all of us. I mean, we hadda use your brother here to get any results to begin with.
I know that. And my family takes the hit--my family...
Could you guys go outside for a minute? I wanna talk to my brother.
You're trying to do everything-- it's gonna kill you.
 We don't got much time...we lose Nezhinski, we're both dead... [The] streets'll get flooded, the whole City's gonna be on fire--
We could handle it. I mean, I come on to help you--
 Well, I didn't ask you to do that. I don't need your help--I could deal with it on my own.
I know. But you don't gotta do everything yourself. That's what I'm trying to tell you.
Joe, what's wrong? Come on, you can tell me.  A deal this big, something's gonna come up. You'll see--someone'll fold.
It's not that. It's just... You give up what you wanted to do to be here, Bobby. And part of me feels a little responsible.
Nah, you didn't do nothing. It's meant to be. You can't fuckin' control it...
 You know, I remember when Pop was mad at you, he always used to say you didn't believe in our family. And Mom, she'd protect you. She'd give you those little caramels... Anyway, I knew he was wrong too, but I didn't say nothing.
Bobby, Rosario Diaz just called again.
Tell her I'm on my way back now.  Don't worry.  
BOBBY GREEN That's all in the past.  I'll see you later.
What happened--where'd she go?!?
She left about an hour ago.   She said to give you this--
We gotta go find her!
She asked us not to, Bobby. She's-- Bobby--we can't do that legally!
DON'T--FUCKIN'--
Go `head!   Keep me in here--KEEP ME HERE!
Bobby, we don't wanna have to put you in restraints, so just calm down!  Calm the fuck down!
You gonna keep me here? HUH?!?
Hello?
It's me, Lou.
HEY!!!!   Bobkes!!! How you doin'?!
I'm okay. Listen uh, you ain't spoke to Rosario lately, have you?
No. She's holed up with you, ain't she?--God knows where.
Yeah--it's just, she   must've gone out for a little bit   and...I wanted to get in touch with   her.
Well, I talk to her, I'll tell her you called.
Thanks... You know, things are really changing on my end. I ain't gonna be in protection anymore.
Oh Bob! That's great! Whaddaya say we knock back a few in your Dad's memory tonight?
...I, I don't know...
Come on! El Caribe's got their masquerade party--every third drink's free. Be like old times!  I'll be there--what more could ask for! C'mon! You comin'? Huh?  You gonna be a man or not?
My brother!   The Grand Return!
You ain't heard from Rosario yet?
No...
 You want Hazel here to fix you up with a little something? I'm only kiddin'--let's have a drink--  Hey Natasha, over there!
Why don't you slow down a little? You're already acting stupid!
And you're already acting like a pain in my ass! I can hold my liquor and yours!
Jumbo, I don't want nothing right now--don't worry about it.
Good evening. My name is Marat Buzhayev, and I'm the owner of the El Caribe. We have a special night, tonight--the Odessa Dance Troop is here to perform for us. I know you'll enjoy it.
We also have an old friend who's come back to us--I want him to stand--Bobby? Ladies and gentlemen, Bobby Green, who used to be our manager here...
My father-in-law would love it if you come upstairs later, to say hello.
Okay, Eli.   Tell him I'll come up.
Bob, you all right?
 Rosario--Rosario's gone down to Florida for a little while.
Florida?  Well, she probably just needed a little time for herself. She'll be back.
Yeah...  You know, I was just thinking `bout when I first met her here... Working back there...
Ah, don't worry, Bob. I have no doubt she'll be back.
I mean, between you and me, that place they had you in was drivin' her crazy. The Kew Motor Inn--we used to call that the SCREW Motor Inn, with all the hookers...  Get that waitress wouldja?
Louis--?  How'd you know where I was staying?
Huh?
How'd you know where I was staying?
 It was, it was in the papers...
It wasn't in no papers, Louis. Don't make me embarrass you. Let's go outside, right now.
Where's Nezhinski?
I don't know--
Don't play games with me, Louis.
But I don't kn--
I just said, DO NOT PLAY GAMES WITH ME!  Rosario tol' you where we were staying, didn't she?!? She trusted you...
Bob, we're, we're buddies--we're like brothers! C'mon!
You don't mean nothing to me now-- that part of my life is dead.  Today it ended for good...
Bobby I swear--I don't know nothing!
You know my father is dead because of you?
You know I'm on the Force now? And I could do anything to you?
No, wait! Bob, please!  Don't do this to me...  Don't do this to me Bob, please...
You tell me what you know right now or I swear to Christ I will make you disappear.
Bobby, I... I told `em where you were--but, but it ain't what you think! I was makin' a buy and these guys in hoods, they held a gun to my head--so I tried to give `em the wrong information!
No, wait, listen! It's true! Rosario tol' me you moved every couple days, she said you was gonna move--I thought you'd be gone by then! It's the truth, Bobby! I would never try and hurt you! Never, swear to God!
You tell me, right now--  Where's your fuckin' spot?!?
I got your money man, but my shit's running low. When you get me more?
 Just hold on a little while longer-- we get more for you soon.
Yeah?   When's that gonna be?
Tomorrow.
After tomorrow, everybody's gonna get well.
We got your boy Eli completely covered, Bobby.
He just turned in for the night.  Can't move an inch without us up his ass.
Well, he said tomorrow and that's what matters.
And we'll be right there with him-- you can be sure of that.
They're movin' serious weight, we might be talkin' major league firepower. Maybe we call in the Feds. 
The Feds?
Each one of `em's got 25 years on the job with this kinda thing, Pudge.
They got one year of experience, repeated 25 times.
Pop would never bring `em in, Joe. We gotta see this through ourselves...
Bobby's right.
Yeah, definitely... We'll get the TAC plan together...  And wherever it is, we'll be ready for `em...
Arright, guys.    That's it for now.
JOE--
Yeah?
You know, they're laughin' at us, out there on the street. Now when we get there, it'll be up to you what we do. But I hope you think about droppin' the hammer on `em.
EMPTY_LINE
I mean--after your father and everything? These people're like fuckin' lice.  Just think about what I'm saying to you.
All right, c'mon. Enough...
We're gonna get all of `em today.
Lookit the two of them...they're so fuckin' close...
Okay--when they complete the sale, that's when we move. ESU'll grab the kids.
This's what we've been planning for for so long. My nephew has stayed just to see this through.  
MARAT BUZHAYEV When this is done, we'll control almost the whole market.  Each load is completely untraceable. It's my own method.
The rest of the product is in the van--total weight, 75 kilos.
The deal's closing--let's go!
You're surrounded by the police! Come out now, with your hands on your heads!
Joe?!
Arright, just stay down!
Stop!   Halt!
EMPTY_LINE
This's too dangerous. We'll all wind up killing each other--
Vadim is in here with us. Radio our guys, tell `em to get into the clearing.
Bobby!   We got the old man!
We got the old man--Buzhayev. Up by the cars. His grandkids are safe--they're in the van.
Are all our guys out?
Burn it.
Bobby?   What're you doin'--
I'm not gonna let him get away...
Don't...don't let me die in here...
Bobby--I, I didn't know it would be your family--
Get down!   On the ground!
Put him in the fuckin' van... Don't touch him...
Bobby! Hey! Lookit you--six months in the Academy and already you look like a chief!
Hey everybody...
I just saw the commissioner. A lotta people're gonna wanna talk to you--important people. About maybe settin' you up with your own unit.
All right.   We'll talk about that after.
They're getting started--we should probably go in now.
You know, I think Pop would be real happy to see you like this.
 I don't think he'd believe it... But I guess things don't always go the way you think they will.
Ah, the Force'll treat you good. I'm sure you do very well.
You definitely gonna leave? Ain't no way you change your mind?
 It's the right thing. It's over for me--I'm out.
Listen, we'll spend some more time together from now on. Okay? I'll come over next week.
Arright, yeah.    Sounds good.
Chaplain? I'd like you to introduce me this way. If you don't mind.
Ladies and gentlemen: we shall begin today's ceremony with the traditional invocation, moving then to the valedictorian address to be given by...Robert Grusinsky. Son of the late Deputy Chief Albert Grusinsky, brother of Captain Joseph Grusinsky.
You know, as I look at this fine young man seated here, I can't help but think about all the young members of our department. I get filled with such pride.  Men like him are the great future of our Force...
I love you, Bobby.
 Love you too, Joe.
