FOR EDUCATIONAL => PURPOSES ONLY
KLINGMAN => Your hands ever shake, Frank? FRANK Sometimes.   It's just adrenaline. KLINGMAN ... How did you know? FRANK I saw him washing the car. KLINGMAN I saw him. FRANK They don't wash cars on the parking levels. He hands a glass of brandy to Frank, who looks at it. KLINGMAN You know, I'd like you to stay on. He passes a small sealed envelope to Frank. FRANK I'm not good in permanent positions, my feet go to sleep. The two men smile at each other. They raise their glasses in a joint salutation -- Klingman drinks. Frank doesn't.
items. => In CLOSEUP, we see Rachel's hands signing "Best wishes,
applause, bowing. => The doll EXPLODES, SHATTERING the TV, the MIRROR and the LIGHT BULBS. The SCREEN GOES BLACK, amid SHOUTS, SCREAMS and CONFUSION. TITLES END.
DEVANEY => So, you won't protect Rachel Marron just because she's in show business? FRANK I don't do celebrities. DEVANEY But the biggest money's in show business people. Frank says nothing. His  eyes are  closed behind the sun- glasses. Devaney picks  up one of  the throwing knives. He holds it carefully by the blade  and throws it. It misses the post by three feet and  clatters against the fence. Frank opens his eyes, sees what's going on and closes his eyes again. DEVANEY (picking up another knife) Do you really do these things? FRANK Isn't she the one who collects dolls? This is enough to distract Devaney from his knife-throwing. DEVANEY  Farmer, Rachel Marron is one of the most famous people in America. She's won every music award invented. She's got the number one song in the country right now and she'll probably be nominated for an Oscar in her very
FRANK => You mean she doesn't collect dolls?
DEVANEY =>  Yes.    She collects dolls. FRANK I thought I knew who she was. Devaney tries to size up whether Frank is kidding him or not. Frank's face betrays nothing. Devaney gestures with a knife. DEVANEY You're probably deadly with these things, aren't you? FRANK Deadly. DEVANEY Show me. Frank doesn't move. DEVANEY Why are you resisting this job? $2,000 bucks a week.  $2,500. FRANK There are several good men available for that kind of money. Have you talked to Fitzgerald or Racine? Portman? DEVANEY Yeah.   Portman was interested... He senses an opening and sits down beside Frank for what he takes to be the first serious talk. DEVANEY ... but we're told you're the best. FRANK There's no such thing. DEVANEY Farmer, we're talking about a very frightened lady. With a
driveway. => FRANK'S POV
it go. => Frank pulls up   to the gate and gets out of his car. He grabs a bar of   the gate and pulls. The whole gate rattles. Frank    gets back in his car and pushes a button on the intercom   box at the side of the gate. A MAN'S VOICE CRACKLES   out of the BOX. Transmission is terrible. MAN'S VOICE Yes? FRANK Frank Farmer to see Miss Marron. MAN'S VOICE What? FRANK Alexander Graham Bell to see Miss Marron! MAN'S VOICE  Have you got an appointment? FRANK The atomic number of zinc is 30. MAN'S VOICE All right. There is a LOUD BUZZING and the gate swings arthritically open.
FRANK'S POV => as he moves up the winding drive through heavily land- scaped grounds. Plenty of potential hiding places. The mansion is at the top of the hill. The grounds behind the mansion fall away.
HENRY => Can I help you? FRANK Are you the man on the intercom? HENRY No.   Can I help you? FRANK My name is Edison. I have an appointment with Miss Marron. HENRY Oh.   And that was arranged by...? FRANK  Mr. Devaney. HENRY Go right ahead, Mr. Edison. FRANK What happened to your arm? HENRY  A doll. He goes back to the limousine. Frank RINGS the DOORBELL, although the door is not shut. EMMA, a fiftyish housekeeper, appears. A man in cover- alls comes out past her, carrying a length of timber.
FRANK => Henry Ford, to see Mr. Devaney. EMMA Come in, please.
EMMA => I'll tell you quite honestly, Mr. Ford, I don't know where Mr. Devaney is. Did he say he'd be here? FRANK Yes. EMMA Then he probably is.   Let me look. She leads Frank into a large, unused formal parlor. There are dustsheets over the furniture and the walls are being repainted. On a number of TV screens scattered around, Rachel's latest video (the one we saw in the opening titles) is continuously playing. The sound of the song itself -- "I HAVE NOTHING" -- comes softly from concealed speakers. EMMA Please make yourself at home. Can I get you anything? Frank demurs and Emma disappears back through the foyer. Frank watches her go, then moves off into the house in the opposite direction. It's obviously undergoing a major redecoration. Painters, decorators and designers come and go, oblivious to Frank's presence.
FRANK'S POV => Dwarfed by the pool, the only person in sight is seven- year old Fletcher, the little boy from the photograph, dark-haired and fragile. He is crouched at the side of the pool with the remote control unit for a foot-long speedboat which is cutting across the water. A nanny sits, some way off, embroidering. Frank's attention is distracted. A heavier BASS MUSICAL BEAT comes from somewhere nearby in the house, another Rachel Marron number, but this time up-tempo and bouncy. Frank follows the sound.
coming from. => It is large and comfortable with plenty of seating, a bar, a wall of stereo gear and a projection booth. It is packed with people, props and video equipment. There is lots of activity, a general air of barely-organized chaos. MUSIC BLARES out. A group of six dancers, is rehearsing an energetic dance number for a music video, directed by their choreographer RORY. Sunlight throws them in a silhouette against the glass wall at the end of the room. A video cameraman circles them, taping the rehearsal, which appears on a large-screen TV behind them. In one corner, a pretty black girl is being pinned into a proposed costume for the video. Several people are stand- ing around, tending to the video and playback gear. All the chairs face the far end of the room and it isn't immediately apparent how many more people are hidden among the big cushions. As Frank sits on the barstool at the back, a large swivel chair turns to reveal Devaney. He waves to Frank and makes his way over to him. On the other side of the room, a brawny, heavyset man in his late thirties rises to look at Frank. He has a twenty inch neck. Devaney signals to him  that everything is all right. The brawny man looks at Frank a moment more, then sits down. Frank looks around the room. A shelf laden with vitamins. Guitars of various makes. A flute. A gold record being used as a coaster. People smoking and chatting through the rehearsal.
is  knitting. => She glances occasionally at the  dancers. A   man sits next to a phone busily discussing a  contract with  someone at the other end of the line.
Then LAUGHTER. => From elsewhere in the room comes the voice of the VIDEO DIRECTOR.
DIRECTOR => Playback, everybody! Rachel's voice comes from the sofa. RACHEL Come here, Rory! The choreographer skips to the sofa and disappears from sight. Sound of kissing, laughter. The video rewinds on the big screen and the dancers gather round it expectantly. RACHEL Sugar, that's gonna be great.    I love the ending... Devaney moves to the front of the room. The PLAYBACK STARTS behind him. There are several overlapping conversations going on. DEVANEY Rachel... RACHEL Nicki, how'd you like the number? You like the end routine? DIRECTOR Rachel. You wanna see it back from the beginning or just the ending... NICKI, responds to Rachel's question. NICKI It was just great, Rory... But Rachel is already replying to the video director.
RACHEL => I wanna see it all. Tony?      I'll bet Tony loved it. The brawny man, Tony, shrugs and stands to look at Frank as he speaks.
TONY => Ehh! RACHEL Don't worry, Rory. Tony doesn't appreciate great art. The pinned-up girl has been brought forward for Rachel's approval, elbowing Devaney a little to one side.
DRESS DESIGNER =>  What do you think, Rachel? DEVANEY Rachel, Frank Farmer is... RACHEL Devaney, do you think this is me? DEVANEY  It's terrific... Devaney is now facing the unseen Rachel. DEVANEY Rachel, Frank Farmer is here. Devaney nods in Frank's direction.     Nicki looks at Frank. RACHEL Who's here? DEVANEY Frank Farmer.  The bodyguard. RACHEL I think Rory should be my bodyguard.  Let's see the back again... DEVANEY Rachel, raise your butt out of there and meet this man. RACHEL MARRON finally rises from the sofa.     It's a bit of
RACHEL => Well, I'm up.
RACHEL => You don't look like a bodyguard. FRANK What did you expect? RACHEL I don't know. Tough guy maybe. FRANK This is my disguise. RACHEL  Well, his timing's good. DEVANEY This is Nicki, Rachel's sister and personal secretary. NICKI Nice to meet you, Mr. Farmer. DEVANEY  ... Tony Scibelli. Tony nods but makes no move to shake hands. Rachel dismisses the Dress Designer. RACHEL  The back's still not right... SPECTOR, still on the phone, offers a perfunctory wave. DEVANEY ... Sy Spector, Rachel's publicist.
RACHEL => Can we get you a drink? FRANK Orange juice. RACHEL Straight?   Nicki. Nicki goes to the bar. Rachel sits and motions for Frank to sit opposite her. RACHEL Rory, I'll be with you in a second. Rory gets up, and goes over to his dancers at the big screen video. RACHEL Listen, this whole thing is Bill's idea... This sudden obsession with protecting me. Tony has always handled my security and we've done just fine. SPECTOR  Yes, I'll hold but not long... RORY Rachel, you want to run through your steps before we go again...? RACHEL I'll be with you in a second. Nicki hands Frank his orange juice.   She looks at Frank as she speaks. NICKI I think Bill's right, Rachel. It's time you took more precautions. Spector enters the conversation. SPECTOR (one hand covers the phone) Nicki, I'm sure Mr. Farmer would tell you the number of nuts writing fan letters jumps every time Rachel is on the cover of a magazine. DEVANEY Not like this.
RACHEL => Relax guys, I said I'd do  it. You see what I'm dealing with  here? I'm willing to go along,  as long as we all understand each  other. I'm not going to let this  alter my life one little bit.  Who was this? ASSISTANT  Oh. That was Clive's office. They called three times... DEVANEY Honey, that's not going to be a problem. DEVANEY  Rachel runs a very informal household, we're all on a first name basis... Spector has finished up on the phone and jumps in. SPECTOR ...And I'm sure you'll blend in just fine. You can select whatever alarm systems you want for the house. Some kind of improved security for the gate. What else, Rachel? Rachel stands and starts to wander over to Rory and the dancers. Frank looks at Devaney.   Devaney doesn't like the tone this is taking. RACHEL I think I'm safe when I'm here at the house so I guess the main thing will be when I go out. Tony will be able to fill you in on all that. You two will have to work something out. I don't want both of you falling all over me everywhere I go. The most important thing is this -- I will not allow Fletcher to be affected by this thing...
SPECTOR =>  I was just going to cover that. We'll have to tell the child you have some other function... RACHEL I don't want him to think   he's in prison. So the house and    grounds must not be altered in any   way. He shouldn't be aware that   you're here. Is that clear?
once. => FRANK Miss Marron... RACHEL Rachel. FRANK There's been a mistake. A misunderstanding. If you'll show me the quickest way out, we'll save each other a lot of trouble. Frank's on his way. Someone brings a silver headpiece on a stand to Rachel. She ignores it, still looking at Frank. TONY You can go past the pool. DEVANEY Shut up, Tony. FARMER Nice meeting you. DEVANEY Farmer, will you wait a minute? SPECTOR Bill, I don't think we should be begging this guy for his services. DEVANEY Sy, I'm handling this. Rachel looks on coolly as Frank slides open the glass door. DEVANEY Farmer, will you wait a minute?
DEVANEY => Farmer, will you wait a minute? I should have told you more. I'm sorry but I was afraid she wouldn't go through with it. I thought I'd let the two of you work it out... come to an understanding. FRANK We did. Frank starts to walk off.   Devaney is grasping at straws. DEVANEY She's not a bad person, and whether she knows it or not, she needs you.  You've come this far... Would you just wait here for one minute. I want to show you something. Please, Farmer. Devaney runs back to the house.
FLETCHER => Hi! FRANK  Hi. FLETCHER How are you today? FRANK  All right. How 'bout yourself? FLETCHER Oh, I'm fine. Do you like boats?
stops. => FRANK No.     I don't like boats. FLETCHER You don't!     Why not? FRANK Oh, I don't know. FLETCHER Sure you do, but you don't want to tell me.
FRANK => You're a smart kid. Fletcher nods. FRANK I'll tell you. One time I was stuck on a boat with some people for four months. FLETCHER A lifeboat? FRANK Nope. A big white yacht.      Do you know what a yacht is? FLETCHER  Yeah.     My mom rented this huge yacht    once, and we took a trip. It was    great. Everyone threw up except    me. I love 'em. FRANK  Well, nobody's perfect. Fletcher squints up at him, the sun in his eyes. FLETCHER You're the bodyguard, aren't you? Frank is surprised. FRANK What do you know about it?
FLETCHER => I've got ears. FRANK I'll remember that. Devaney trots into the pool area, out of breath. He is holding a bulging manila file. As he sees Fletcher, he holds the file casually at his side. Frank sees Fletcher looking at the file. DEVANEY How are you, Fletch?  I'm glad you waited.    Let's go over here. FRANK  Nice meeting you. Fletcher looks after them silently.
DEVANEY => This is just in the last six months. FRANK  Have you ever tried having these professionally assessed? Devaney shakes his head no. Frank begins to look through the letters, flipping them by the corner of the page. From many different sources, some are scrawled, some typed, some assembled from cutouts. Many are soiled and torn, others immaculate. Occasionally, one will have a photo of Rachel with crude markings on it. Spector enters sucking on a popsicle. He comes to stand over Frank's shoulder, peering nonchalantly at the piles of letters. SPECTOR Devaney says you were in the Secret Service. Frank nods.
table. => SPECTOR Ever guard the main man? FRANK I was two years with Carter and four years with Reagan. Frank sets another letter in the center pile.   He stops, smiling at it.
FRANK => This is a little old lady in Akron. She's written to everybody I've ever worked for. He continues to turn until something stops him. Several letters are paper-clipped together. They are the pasted- up type we saw being assembled on the desk top. SPECTOR Reagan got shot. His chatter is beginning to annoy Frank. FRANK Not on my shift. Spector emits a gratuitous laugh, acknowledges the joke. SPECTOR That's good. Frank goes back to his letters.   He taps the stack in the center of the table. FRANK At first glance, these don't bother me. But keep them. You never know. He separates one letter from the others. FRANK This could be something. Devaney searches Frank's face. DEVANEY You think it could be the same guy? The one who rigged the doll?
FRANK => I don't know. Did you tell Miss Marron about it? Does she know about the doll? Devaney and Spector exchange looks.   This is evidently a sore point between them.
SPECTOR => We said there'd been some electrical problem while she was on stage. Short circuit. Look, she doesn't need that kind of worry right now. It would upset her. FRANK What about the police? SPECTOR There was no reason for the police. No one got hurt. FRANK What about the chauffeur? SPECTOR It was nothing. It was just our people there. Frank turns and watches Fletcher by the pool.   Devaney's eyes are still on Frank's face. DEVANEY Sy, I think we should show him the room.
FRANK => Is this her bedroom? SPECTOR Yes. DEVANEY No. She sleeps in a room next to Fletcher's down the hall. Sy had this done for a magazine layout, SPECTOR 'Superstars in their Boudoirs.'
FRANK => No. DEVANEY Rachel never liked it.
SPECTOR => She didn't have to like it... Devaney gently lays the cut-out letter on the bed. DEVANEY We found the letter here.
FRANK => Somebody was in here? DEVANEY Somebody broke in and ... masturbated on the bed. FRANK And she doesn't know about this either? Devaney shakes his head. SPECTOR Are you kidding? This would really freak her out. DEVANEY What do you think? FRANK Someone penetrates the house, gets upstairs and jerks off on the bed ... I'd say that qualifies as a problem. DEVANEY What kind of problem? SPECTOR  Of fuck, we don't need this now... FRANK This house is wide open. SPECTOR Excuse me? FRANK I said this house is wide open
DEVANEY => I'll talk to her, I'll make her understand. I can do that. SPECTOR No.   I'll talk to her. Spector exits the room in a huff.
DEVANEY => ...She won't give you any static, Frank, you've got my word on that. Frank is still focused on Fletcher. FRANK Sure she will. DEVANEY So what job's perfect? You're a bodyguard, aren't you? Slowly, Frank faces him. FRANK  Yeah. As they reach the car, Devaney is relieved.   He dares a perfect smile. FRANK Devaney, if you ever lie to me again, I'll take you apart.
his clothes. => HENRY Why'd you say your name was Edison? FRANK I wanted to see how hard it was to get in.
HENRY => And it wasn't, was it? Henry unconsciously flexes his fingers, easing the muscles in his hands. Frank notices and pulls out a small tube of ointment from a pouch he's unpacking. He hands it to Henry. FRANK Put this on your arm.    It'll help the ache. Henry takes it but is noncommittal. FRANK I'll bet you can fill up a whole day just washing the cars and driving Rachel Marron around town. HENRY That's my job. FRANK We're adding to your duties. HENRY Huh? FRANK You're my new assistant. Frank removes three boxes of cartridges from the suitcase and puts them in the back of a dresser drawer as Henry watches. HENRY Says who? FRANK Henry, I've spent a lot of time guarding people all over the world
HENRY => Who? FRANK The cocky black chauffeur. Henry considers this for a moment and smiles. OVER scenes 26-28, we hear the VOICE of CNN's MARTIN GROVE from "Showbiz Today."
MARTIN GROVE => It's Oscar time again, folks, and with Academy members marking their ballots today for this year's nominations; some canny tipsters in Vegas have announced their picks for the Awards. MARTIN GROVE Echoing the prevailing buzz in Hollywood, the Vegas Hilton is gambling on one sure thing at least. Newcomer Rachel Marron is tipped at 3 to 1 to lead this year's Best Actress runners. MARTIN GROVE The sultry singer made a notable acting debut last fall in Queen Of The Night, singing the hit song 'I Have Nothing'. The lady may end up eating her words if she takes home that statuette March 20th...
FLETCHER'S POV => Frank and Henry are down there conferring about the fence.
RACHEL => appears beside Fletcher, looks down there too, then leads her son purposefully away. Fletcher isn't happy about it.
NICKI => My own ego wall. No platinum records. Frank spots a picture of two girls.
FRANK => You and Rachel? NICKI When I was a kid, I put a little band together. We played high school dances, stuff like that. Then Rachel joined the act. As you can imagine, she was quite a little entertainer. Even then, she had a way of stopping the show. So I kind of quit. Professionally, anyway. FRANK You never went back? NICKI It was pretty obvious who the star in our family was. Frank looks back at the picture.    Nicki smiles.
HENRY => That depends on what you call a 'hint.' FRANK I don't want anyone on the street to be able to look at the cars and know who owns them. Henry leans in a doorway and hits a master switch. The three doors of the garage start to rise in sequence. HENRY I don't think there's anything here you'd call a 'hint.' One at a time the doors go up to reveal: First garage -- the Cadillac limousine we've seen earlier. License: RACHEL 2 Second garage -- a gray Mercedes.    License:   RACHEL 3
FRANK => Get new plates for those two.
FLETCHER'S POV => Workmen put up a seven-foot cyclone fence. Across the road, a black Toyota 4 X 4 is stopped. It slowly pulls away. We can't see inside it.
RACHEL => Fletcher!    C'mon. Back in here! As she speaks, some workmen test the remote control on a window shutter. It descends in front of Rachel's face. She is not amused. Fletcher passes Frank on his way to join Rachel. He mutters almost under his breath. FLETCHER I think he's got a black 4 X 4. Could be a Chevy. More like a Toyota. Frank stares at Fletcher, then looks back to the street.
CUT TO => FRANK'S FACE illuminated by the screen. COURT This    is another of the ones we think    are worth pursuing. Lots of work    went into it. No prints. We're    doing lab work on it. It could    be nothing. MINELLA'S FACE is illuminated above the projector. MINELLA This is the one you think is tied to the doll? FRANK That's what her manager thinks.
COURT => This 'I Have Nothing' business is a natural with the record and movie and all. The projector light goes off and the room light goes on. The room is practically bare. Ray Court, a prematurely white-haired, career civil servant, raises the window shade. Sunlight streams in. On Court's lapel is a tiny P.T. Boat pin. Terry Minella, a slight, dark 35-year-old, offers Frank a cigarette; Frank declines, Minella lights up.
COURT => I sort of lost track of you after Washington. FRANK Yeah. COURT How's the private stuff? FRANK  Fine. COURT Big money, I bet? Huh? Frank shrugs.    Court looks at Minella knowingly.
COURT => Shit. I knew it. It is big money. Fuck! You need an assistant? I'm ready to get out. I've lost my tolerance for assholic behavior. You should see the jerk we're covering now... COURT 'Hellfire Henry' Kent... MINELLA Shh!    Somebody wants to pop him... COURT Which isn't exactly surprising, considering what the shithead's
been saying. => MINELLA Yeah!  Do everyone a favor... (he coughs, ironically) As you know, we're nonpolitical these days. The three men laugh easily together.   They have reached the lobby doors. COURT  We'll put this stuff through Washington. Behavioral Sciences should have something in a few days. FRANK Thanks.  Ray? COURT Yeah? FRANK Why am I getting all this cooperation? MINELLA She's a big star. Important people care about her. COURT Politics and show business are practically the same these days... Got any crowd photos we can use? FRANK I'm trying to keep her away from crowds. COURT Good luck.
WOMAN =>  Goodbye, Nicki. So great to see you. Nicki waves and follows Rachel. Frank stays very close without seeming to walk with Rachel.
RACHEL => I'm surprised you didn't plug them.
TONY =>  Hey, let's go. Frank takes a last look then gets into the front seat next to Tony. FRANK  O.K. Henry, let's go. Tony looks at Frank, eyes narrowing. From across the street, we see the limo pull away. As the shot clears, the dark shape of another vehicle appears, slowly moving into frame over the top of the camera.
TONY => Let me set you straight on a few things. For starters, I love this lady... What I do for her I do for
miserable. => While Tony speaks, Frank's eyes dart to the side mirror; his gaze never leaves it.
FRANK => No problem. I'd like to know how you handle things, Tony. TONY I handle things fine, Frank. You watch me and you'll learn something. FRANK  Turn left. HENRY Is that him? Frank shakes his head, he's not sure.   Tony reacts. TONY Hey, what's going on? FRANK Shortcut. FRANK'S POV - TOYOTA IN REARVIEW MIRROR As the limo turns, the 4 X 4 follows them into the turn. ANGLE - FRANK whispers to Henry. FRANK Slow down, very slow. HENRY You want me to do a one-eighty?
FRANK => No, just slow down. The car slows. ANGLE - SPECTOR AND RACHEL IN BACK
SPECTOR => Why are we stopping?    Are we here? Behind them, THROUGH the rear window, the 4 X 4 can be seen. Sensing something, it makes a sudden TIRE- SCREECHING left turn, disappearing behind them.
FRANK => Stop here... Take them to the house. Frank jumps out and jumps a hedge, racing toward the lawn and work area. ANGLE - TONY, RACHEL AND SPECTOR As the car pulls away they see Frank running wildly across the property. TONY What's with him?
accelerate. => As it pulls away (it is too far to record the license number), he breaks into a full run toward the other end of the property. Leaping hedges, Frank crashes through tropical vegetation. CRASHING through a bamboo forest, he scurries down a steep wooded slope toward the road below. The 4 X 4 can be glimpsed through the trees as he runs to head it off.
RACHEL =>  You! You! Out! Out!        Now!   Out of here! Get out! Terrified, the Old Locksmith drops his tools and begins backing out of the room. OLD LOCKSMITH Yes, ma'am. Thank you. I'm a real fan of yours, Miss Marron. Still angry, but disarmed, Rachel makes a face. RACHEL Then you can take your tools with you. She turns to the window, in what she imagines is Frank's general direction, and, like a little girl, suddenly sticks out her tongue.
HENRY => Is that Devaney?
FLETCHER =>  She's got him by the short ones, doesn't she, Frank? Frank squelches a smile at Henry.   Where did he learn that? FRANK Yeah, she makes him nervous. They watch as Devaney SCREECHES to a STOP, gets out and hurries inside.
RACHEL => I want him gone. DEVANEY What is it now? NICKI He told Rachel no Sunday brunch at Charlie's. DEVANEY No Sunday brunch. That's why you called me up here? RACHEL That is not it! It's my money and my life and I want him out of here. DEVANEY Where is he? Nicki indicates through the glass door.    Devaney walks over to it.
NICKI => On the patio. RACHEL He's through messing with my life.
DEVANEY => Rachel, I'm getting goddamn sick of running up here every time he steps on your toes. (leaning out the glass door) Farmer! Would you come in here a minute?
RACHEL => Did you know he was nuts? SPECTOR Do you know who couldn't get past the gates yesterday? RACHEL Who? SPECTOR Robin Leach, that's who. Rory sniggers into the back of Rachel's hair, fighting off a laugh. Rachel has difficulty keeping a straight face, too. Spector glares at them as Frank enters from the sliding door. SPECTOR You think that's funny? The man talks to 20 million people and he can't even get in here. FRANK Did he have an appointment? Devaney turns to him. DEVANEY Farmer, what is this about brunch at Charlie's? Rachel's been going there every Sunday for the last five years. FRANK I don't want her doing anything she's always done.
RACHEL =>  'I don't want her doing anything she's always done.' The guy's a fanatic. DEVANEY So are the guys he's protecting you from. RACHEL Excuse me if I don't faint. NICKI Think of Fletcher --
RACHEL => Do you know he's got the phones bugged? SPECTOR Oh Jesus, Bill. RACHEL Maybe he gets off listening to my calls. All that heavy breathing... DEVANEY  What do you want from my life? RACHEL I want some peace around here. SPECTOR That's right. Devaney looks at Frank imploringly. FRANK We're almost done. RACHEL And I want to be able to eat brunch with my friends. FRANK Go on Tuesday this week. Spector looks at him as though he were a Martian.
SPECTOR =>  Tuesday -- morning -- brunch. Where did you find this guy? Rachel turns ON the BLENDER and stares at Frank.
HENRY =>  I wish Rachel didn't keep coming here. It makes me nervous. TONY Me too. 'Cept I'm not nervous 'cos I got you with me.
discarded clothing. => RACHEL Louise, you've got too much great stuff. OWNER (from the back of the shop, laughing) Take it all, darlin'. Frank leans casually against a wall, not watching Rachel, but watching the shop, watching the street outside. Rachel finds something she likes. RACHEL Wooo!   Let me try this on. She flicks a glance to Frank; he's not looking at her. She pulls back the curtain of the makeshift changing booth, then stops dramatically.
RACHEL =>  Farmer, do you want to come in here with me? Just to be safe? Frank glances at her, then resumes his surveillance of the shop. Rachel's head bobs up and down above the curtain as she changes. RACHEL You probably won't believe this, but I have a reputation for being a bitch. Frank says nothing. He gazes outside through the store- front window and sees Henry and Tony horsing around next to the limo. A few small boys stand around the car. One of them is climbing onto the hood. RACHEL I didn't used to be. But you get known for being a certain way -- a way people think you are -- and pretty soon you get like that. Can't help it. Frank smiles knowingly.   Rachel notices. RACHEL You don't think so? You're such an expert on famous people? FRANK I've seen a few. RACHEL And you disagree? FRANK  You can be as you choose to be. It's an act of discipline sometimes, but it can be done. Rachel stops in her tracks... then opens the curtains and looks at herself in the mirror. Also reflected in the mirror is Frank. RACHEL That why you never stay with one of your clients? They too undisciplined for you? Or is it you're afraid you'll start to care about them?
FRANK =>  That's right. Rachel turns to Frank. RACHEL Can't you answer straight just once? Why don't you talk to me? I'm not such a bad lady. FRANK You're too clever for me.   I can't keep up. Frank continues to search the shop and street with his gaze. Rachel steps closer to him. RACHEL Look at me, Farmer! Frank turns and looks at her. RACHEL You don't approve of me, do you? FRANK Disapproval's a luxury I can't afford. Gets in the way. RACHEL Don't like emotions getting to you, huh? Never mix business with pleasure? FRANK That's right. It's a stand-off. After a moment, Rachel motions to an outfit on a rack just behind him. RACHEL Grab that would you? Frank takes a beat.   Looks out the window. FRANK I'm here to keep you alive... not to help you shop. Fuming, Rachel sizes things up, then grabs it herself, whipping the curtain shut behind her. A smile plays across Frank's face.
ANGLE FRANK => Frank sits alone in his room, lit by the glow of the TV, dressed in a business-style blue suit and tie. He's watching Rachel's videos. Scattered around the video player are a collection of other Rachel Marron CD's, tapes and videos. Frank has been noting down lyrics on the yellow legal pad on his lap. Some of the phrases are circled. As he watches, we see a subtle change in his expression. It is as if he really were looking at Rachel for the first time, here, watching her sing. For a second, she seems to be singing to him alone, passionate and vulnerable. He opens a small box and removes a tiny enamelled Russian Orthodox-type cross. He fastens the clasp, checking that it holds, then looks back to the screen.
at Frank. => FRANK  I thought it was dinner.
Henry shrugs. => FRANK  Are we going somewhere else? SPECTOR The Mayan, Frank.
FRANK => What's the Mayan? Spector starts to climb into the limo. SPECTOR It's a club, Frank. Come on, Henry, let's go. FRANK Spector, you've got to tell me about these things. SPECTOR I just did. He disappears inside the limo. Rachel tugs at Frank's lapels, looks him up and down, brushing something off his shoulder. Frank's annoyed. RACHEL Nice suit, Frank. Rachel is about to get in. FRANK Rachel. He removes something from his pocket, a small enameled cross. FRANK I want you to keep this. Rachel looks at it, both flattered and confused. RACHEL For me?   It's beautiful.
FRANK => It's fitted with a radio transmitter. When you close the clasp, it sends a signal. If there's ever a problem and we're separated, just press it and I'll know you need me.
SPECTOR => Okay, she knows how it works, let's get going. Rachel manages a quick smile to Frank as she gets in the back. Frank gets in the front beside Tony. The limo pulls out.
at Frank. => RADIO D.J. You're listening to K.R.O.K., the rock of L.A. and yes we have.  RADIO D.J. We told you we'd crack the case of the mystery guest... and if you are one of the few who hasn't heard, it's Rachel at the Mayan. Franks turns UP the VOLUME. RADIO D.J. Rachel Marron, tonight, appearing as Billy Thomas' very special guest. But if you don't have a ticket, you can forget going down there. Police are asking us to ask you to stay away. So everybody, please stay cool, stay tuned and we'll try to get you some interviews after the show. Remember, you heard it here on K.R.O.K. -- the station that delivers. Frank looks back at Spector who silently mouths --
SPECTOR => It wasn't me. The car turns a corner and there it is, The Mayan only fifty yards ahead, a mob of fans spilling out of the club, off the sidewalk and into the street.
TONY => Fuckin' a. Spector whoops with uncontrolled delight from the back of the limo. Frank stares ahead in disbelief. The NOISE of the CROWD can be heard as they pull up front.
CROWD => Rachel!   Rachel! We want Rachel! Others join in as the mob presses forward. The instant she exits the car, her expression goes public -- a wide, show-biz smile. Sandwiched between Spector and Devaney, with Tony in front and Frank at the rear, Rachel makes her entrance. A young man breaks the barrier   moving toward Rachel. Frank grabs him by one of his   belt loops, gracefully guides him all the way across   and slips him under the opposite cordon into the arms   of a security guard.
JOURNALIST => ... and this is my exclusive? SPECTOR I swear I thought she'd talk to you. Maybe later. What can I say. Frank is checked out by a strange-looking women in Vampyra Drag.
DEVANEY => He sent another one. Rachel immediately picks up on this. RACHEL What do you mean 'another one'? Frank quickly shoots a look at Spector. FRANK They didn't tell you.
RACHEL => Tell me what? DEVANEY There were some letters before, Rachel... same kind of thing, threats, oddball stuff... SPECTOR We didn't want to worry you... DEVANEY ... and somebody got into the house...
RACHEL =>  Someone was in my house? SPECTOR Okay.   Let's not get hysterical... FRANK Let's get her out of here. RACHEL Someone was in my house? SPECTOR It was weeks ago. You were out of town... RACHEL While Fletcher was there? SPECTOR Listen, Fletcher is okay. The house is like Fort Knox now. Right, Frank? FRANK We should get her out of here. Right now! SPECTOR There's no way anyone could... RACHEL No way anyone could what? SPECTOR No, wait... look everybody calm down. Calm down. DEVANEY Sy.
SPECTOR => Let's just see how she is.  How do you feel, honey? Someone comes through the door with some flowers.   Frank eases them out and gently closes the door. FRANK I can't protect her out there. RACHEL Do you think he's out there? Devaney can't answer.   She turns to Frank.
RACHEL => He's here, isn't he? FRANK He might be. SPECTOR We don't know that. Frank, we don't know that. Rachel is enraged. RACHEL But you know he was in my house... oh my God. DEVANEY Let's go home, Sy. We'll have to make an announcement. SPECTOR Fine, you make it, they'll tear the fucking place apart.
DEVANEY => Excuse me... hello... I've got an announcement to make. I'm sorry but... due to circumstances beyond... Voices shout. "Where's Rachel?"... a groan begins. A chorus of boos fills the room. He raises his hands.
RACHEL => Wait... FRANK Rachel... don't do it.    It's not worth it... RACHEL  No fucking freak is gonna chase me off stage. She pulls away from him.    Farmer starts after her, closely followed by Spector.
DEVANEY => I'm afraid that... A great gush of applause from the audience. Devaney's befuddled. He doesn't see Rachel walking up behind him. DEVANEY Rachel won't be able... Rachel stands beside him beaming. She bows. Claps back to her fans. Devaney retreats. Rachel gestures in his direction. RACHEL Bill Devaney, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Bill. Hey, everyone. Hello! Isn't Billy Thomas the greatest. He's asked me to sing a song. I hope you don't mind. The crowd roars its approval. Frank nervously scans the room. Rachel smiles and moves along the stage. MUSIC starts in the b.g. Masking obvious fear, she starts to sing. As she takes one hand from the microphone, her fingers tremble. She clasps it again to hide her anxiety.
stage. => Rachel snatches a quick glance at Frank then looks back to her silent audience. ANGLE - FRANK He scans the audience intensely, face to face.
SPECTOR => Look. Frank, I know what you're saying. I know you want to do what's best for her. I understand that. You have a job to do here. But you have to understand that Rachel has a job to do too. And that's what she's doing - out there. She's working, Frank. That's what she does and that's where she does it. She's hot right now. This is the time for her. If she doesn't get out there, she's dead. Forget about crazy death threats, if she doesn't sing, she's dead anyway... Look, handled properly, this thing could be good for a million dollars' worth of free publicity. Frank grabs him by the collar and slams him up against a wall of curtain ropes. FRANK One word. SPECTOR It could clinch her the nomination. FRANK One word in print about any of this... Spector nods, half-gasping. Frank tightens his grip. Frank's attention is drawn by a renewed roar from the crowd. SPECTOR Trouble with you is you don't understand the sympathy vote.
mural. => Camera flashbulbs explode like crazy through the glare. The thundering adoration is like a stimulant. She darts a look to Frank and gives him a fierce "naughty girl" smile. RACHEL (turning back to crowd) You like that? Would like to hear another? Billy?
RACHEL =>  I think my feet are trying to tell me something... wanna see a new video? The crowd explodes. They know what song is coming. They start to move with Rachel. RACHEL  I want to dance... She skitters to the other side of the stage, baiting her fans. Her new video explodes across the video wall behind her. The crowd surges forward. Two security guards nervously tense up, watching the crowd. When one fan tries to climb onstage, Frank reaches out and unbalances him, so that the man falls back into the audience. Another man climbs the stage on the other side. One of the guards darts out like a ballboy at a tennis match, pushes the fan back and scurries to the far side to resume his vigilance. The crowd is getting even more excited, pressing closer, trying to touch Rachel. The security guards move in, but Rachel gestures for them to back off. ANGLE - FRANK Frank's task has suddenly become impossible. A forest of hands and faces start to engulf Rachel. Anyone could be the killer. Frank's eyes  dart over them all, his gaze intense, as if trying to hold them off by sheer willpower. RACHEL'S POV Looking offstage at Frank. His frustration is almost intoxicating to her. She struts over the lip of the stage. A man leaps up from audience to join her. Frank starts forward. Rachel gestures to him to hold back, waving him off.
SPECTOR => Look at her, fucking great.
approval. => Frank quickly sizes up the scene. He speaks into a SURV KIT microphone in his sleeve. Across the room we see Henry listening, pushing an earpiece to his ear. Henry quickly scurries to an exit. Frank starts moving toward the stage. At that moment, the lucky man Rachel's dancing with grabs her around the waist and spins her gleefully, like the dance partner she has been pretending to be. One of security guards rushes forward to extri- cate her. The spinning man inadvertently bumps hard into the guard and the man loses his grip on Rachel. She flies out of his grasp and tumbles off the front of the stage -- into the adoring arms of a half dozen fans. The audience goes wild. This is the kind of thing Rachel was famous for when she was starting out. The scene resembles a rugby scrum... with Rachel the ball.
FRANK => Tony, not there. TONY I'll take care of this. He heads for the door.
TONY => Just follow me. He turns and heads out to the sidewalk like a bull.
TONY => Make way here. Outta the way! A burly street regular gets a shove from Tony and comes back hard. The  crowd immediately sides with him, yells encouragement.  But Tony is the better man and sends him sprawling. The  rest of the way to the curb opens up. At the parking area Tony discovers there is no limo and turns in bewilderment to Rachel. But she is not there. A couple of people laugh.
SPECTOR => Hey! What the fuck... Farmer! Farmer! Come back here... The limo skids around the corner and speeds off up the street, leaving Spector in helpless fury -- apoplectic and speechless.
speaks softly. => HENRY Never done that before. FRANK It's been a long night.
for something. => Lying on the floor in big CLOSEUP we see a small  fragment of Rachel's dress. The FOOTSTEPS STOP by it. A    hand picks it up gently and lifts it OUT OF FRAME. We   hear the sound of a deep lingering INHALATION of breath.   The feet move on.
FRANK => I know why.
at Tony. => FRANK I don't want to talk about this again.
sion. => The grounds are quiet, beautiful, misty. We see him from behind some foliage, as if he's being covertly observed, stalked. A twig snaps and he turns sharply. It's Rachel. She's dressed in a soft jumpsuit and starts jogging out from behind the bushes towards him.
very girlish. => RACHEL Hey!   Gotcha, didn't I?
FRANK => Hey. RACHEL You're probably wondering what I'm doing.  You didn't know I jogged, did you?
RACHEL => What's the matter? 'Fraid I'll get picked off in my snazzy running suit? FRANK No. I'm afraid I'll have to jog with you. They both smile. RACHEL Great.    I guess I can't do it. Rachel stops pumping, gasps for air, and for one moment, rests a hand on Frank's arm to support herself. She removes it quickly. RACHEL Will you walk with me a little? Frank nods and they cut off across the grounds. RACHEL  I know this is kinda late, but thank you. I'm really glad you're here.  I'm going to try to cooperate. FRANK That would be good. They walk in silence for few moments. When Rachel finally speaks, she sounds genuinely unsure of herself, nervous. It's very appealing. And if it's an act, she's a terrific actress.
RACHEL => Farmer... I have this problem. This minor little problem. You see, I'd like to go out for an evening. Just me and a guy. You know...  ... like a 'date.' But I can't go out on a date because you have to be with me every minute. I mean, what if he invited me up to his place afterwards? Are you going to come, too?  So the only thing I can figure is for you to take me out.  So... that's what I was wondering ... you know. What do you think? But only if you want to. Frank is bemused. RACHEL Only if you want to... I'm not so bad...  God, this is embarrassing. I'm gonna run up ahead there. You decide. She runs up the hill to the pool area, which is now above them. He walks up after her.
NICKI => Rachel!    Sandy Harris is on the phone! Rachel and Frank look up. RACHEL Tell her she'll have to wait, babe. I'm getting fixed up here. AT WINDOW - CLOSE ON NICKI She watches Frank and Rachel, her expression neutral. She turns away. Fletcher continues to watch his mother with Frank.
DAY => The SOUND is DEAFENING. A wet car comes out of the tunnel of machinery. In the distance, glimpsed through the spinning brushes, Henry talks to a couple of workers as he waits for the limo to be cleaned.
D.J. => ... And here's another biggie from a lady very much in the news these days, Miss Rachel Marron... We see the owner of the hands. It is the young blond man Frank kicked aside at the MAYAN. His name is DAN. His face is impassive. D.J. ... the hit song from the movie... Queen Of The Night... I Have Nothing. The song begins and Rachel's voice fights the din. In the back of the car, Dan's hose probes around, nosing into all the crevices of the upholstery. It sucks up a crumpled pre-signed photograph of Rachel from the gap beside the rear seat. The hose is switched off and the gloved hands retrieve the picture.
inside. => As the hands remove the rubber gloves, the inside of the locker is revealed. Pasted over every inch of the locker are pictures of Rachel Marron. One tabloid shot of her dancing with the word "whore" scrawled across it. Taped to a single sheet of white paper in the center, like a holy relic, is the torn scrap of Rachel's dress from the MAYAN. The hands pin up the newly-acquired photo next to it.
the letter. => INSERT - B&W SHOT OF TOSHIRO MIFUNE WIELDING HIS SWORD, CUTTING DOWN HIS ATTACKERS
fierce. => RACHEL Well, he didn't look like he wanted to die to me. FRANK There's a big difference between wanting to die and having no fear of death. They walk down the sidewalk. RACHEL And because he had no fear of death, he was invincible? FRANK What do you think? RACHEL Well, he sure creamed 'em all in the end. FRANK Yeah, it was a good movie. They walk off down the sidewalk. RACHEL How many times have you seen it? FRANK Sixty-two.
Frank nods. => FRANK Yeah. RACHEL Your kinda music?
RACHEL => I don't trust discipline. At the crucial moment I'd cop out. FRANK That happens. RACHEL But not with you, Fierce Frank. FRANK It happens. A beat.
RACHEL => Have you ever liked anybody? FRANK What do you mean? RACHEL Like me -- a girl. Frank knows what she's driving at. But he's not at all happy to relinquish this information. FRANK A long time ago. RACHEL What happened? Do you mind if I ask? FRANK Do you mind if I don't answer? RACHEL I don't want to pry... Frank smiles at that. RACHEL (begins to laugh, can't help herself) She didn't die did she? You weren't like... protecting her and she got killed? Frank is silent, grim.    Rachel looks stricken. RACHEL Oh, my god!    That's it, isn't it?
FRANK => Nobody's perfect. Rachel is taken aback. RACHEL Oh Frank, I'm sorry.
Frank laughs. => FRANK No... Nice try though.  It was less dramatic than that. She didn't love me anymore. Can you imagine such a thing?
RACHEL => No, not really. A SONG comes on the JUKEBOX -- 'WHAT BECOMES OF THE BROKEN HEARTED.' Frank smiles as Rachel begins to sing. RACHEL So, is this a full service date, Frank? Frank's wary. RACHEL I'm just asking you to dance.
RACHEL =>  I'm sorry... It's just that... It's so depressing. Now they're both laughing.
FRANK =>  It is, isn't it. Suddenly a dish drops to the floor. Frank, still dancing, makes a smooth quick turn that puts his body between Rachel and the noise. His head turns to locate the source of the noise.
RACHEL => Don't worry, I'll protect you. They drift back into the music, Rachel singing, Frank watching.
RACHEL =>  It's very quiet here. She walks to some shelves -- a random selection of books, football and karate trophies, framed citations and other memorabilia. She glances at a dusty framed photo of a football team. RACHEL  West Virginia University Football. God, look at you. She looks at Frank, quizzically. RACHEL What'd you play?
FRANK => End. RACHEL Were you tough? FRANK No.    Fast. Rachel puts down her drink and moves toward a samurai sword that is mounted in its scabbard on the wall. She looks at it, peering closely. RACHEL You some kind of a samurai, too?
Frank smiles. => RACHEL They said you were in the Secret Service. What made you get out? Frank moves away and sits on a sofa against the wall. FRANK Money. Rachel looks around at Frank's modest home. RACHEL I can see your tastes are extravagant. She looks at Frank and then back at the sword.   She reaches out to touch it. RACHEL May I? Frank nods. Rachel takes it off its mount carefully, unhooks the scabbard and begins to slide it off. FRANK Watch yourself. Rachel slides the scabbard off. The naked blade is breathtaking. Rachel holds the sword out before her. She walks toward Frank, then stops and looks over the blade at him. RACHEL You're a hard one to figure, Frank Farmer. He stares at her. She steps closer, so the blade is only about a foot from his face.
RACHEL => It seems to me a bodyguard must know little peace. Frank stands up so that the point of the sword is only about an inch from his chest. He reaches out over the blade to Rachel's neck and unties the silk scarf she is wearing there. One hand draws the scarf away. The other hand lingers for a moment on her neck, then lifts away. FRANK Watch this. He has raised the scarf over his head, in   the space between them. With two hands he spreads    it out and then lets it go. Slowly, billowing, the scarf    floats down over the blade and is cut in two. These    two pieces float slowly to the floor. Frank takes Rachel's wrist and moves the sword away to the side. They are both holding it as Rachel presses her body against Frank's and they begin to kiss.
RACHEL => I've never been this safe before. Frank smiles. RACHEL No one could get by you. FRANK Right now it might not be so hard. Rachel laughs, kisses him and buries her head down into his shoulder. Frank stares across the bed at the samurai sword lying on the floor. Some of Rachel's clothing is draped in a heap across it. The torn pieces of her scarf lie nearby. HOLD ON Frank's look. SHOCK CUT TO: The roller-blind is raised with a sharp, snapping sound. Frank is moving around the room, getting dressed. Rachel
activity. => RACHEL What? What is it? What are you doing?
RACHEL => Frank? FRANK Rachel, I don't want to get confused about what I'm doing here.
RACHEL => I'm not confused. Frank finds his shoes. FRANK You pay me to protect you, that's what I do. Rachel sits up. RACHEL What? Have I done something wrong? FRANK No, nothing. RACHEL Then what is it? She lifts the sheet seductively and looks over the top of it. RACHEL Do you want me to beg? FRANK No, I want you to do without. She stops. RACHEL What's going on, Frank? FRANK I want to keep it straight in my head what job I'm doing.
RACHEL => And what is that exactly?    Making me feel like shit? FRANK No, I'm sorry. This is my fault.
RACHEL => Don't apologize for godsake. Just tell me what I did. I'm a big girl. FRANK You didn't do anything. It was me. I involved myself with my client.
RACHEL => Your "client"? FRANK I made a mistake. RACHEL What mistake?... You don't find me attractive anymore. FRANK Christ! I've told you why. I can't protect you like this. RACHEL And what?   That's it for me? FRANK Yeah... RACHEL I don't believe it. He automatically checks the gun as he slips it into the holster. FRANK You can live with that or you can fire me. RACHEL But I can't fuck you. Frank turns and looks at her.    This is hard for him, too. RACHEL I don't believe this... I'm asking you?... Let me tell you...
NICKI =>  Thought you'd like to know. Everyone said she was a sure thing. Of course, you know all about that. She raises an eyebrow, gives him a look. Frank looks steadily back at her. She drops a small pile of mail beside the magazines... several letters and a small packet. She's embarrassed by Frank's gaze. NICKI I'm sorry. That was out of line. It's none of my business... Here's today's question marks for you. She turns and walks briskly back to the house. Frank watches her go, then looks slowly down to the pile. From across the pool, Fletcher watches silently, then pushes his boat out into the deep water.
SPECTOR => Farmer!   Get in here!
SPECTOR => Put together a list of   your expenses. Your total    billing... Let me have it in one   hour and I'll see that a check   is cut. FRANK Don't you ever say what's on your mind? Spector cannot believe he's being so addressed -- especially in front the staff. The assistants stop in their tracks and look. SPECTOR  What's on my mind is that you're fired, Frank. She missed all her interviews yesterday because of your little date. Do you realize she stood up Barbara Walters? First you fuck up her career... Behind Spector, out of his line of sight, Rachel and Devaney appear in the doorway with more cards. They also stop and listen. SPECTOR ... and now you're fucking with her head. FRANK That's between us. SPECTOR You think so? You forget who signs your check. You don't understand the role I play around here.
FRANK => No.   I understand. Spector stiffens, then decides not to take this one on. SPECTOR Get your shit together and be out of here by noon. DEVANEY Frank stays. Spector looks round, sees that Devaney and Rachel have been listening. Rachel is silent. With a curt nod of his head, Spector gestures to the assistants to leave the room. Devaney weighs in.
DEVANEY => With this high a profile, Rachel needs protection now more than ever. If he goes, you can forget Miami... SPECTOR She's signed the fucking contract, Bill. You want me to read it to you? Rachel is watching them both. DEVANEY Fuck the contract. If he goes, she's not singing a note. It's too dangerous. SPECTOR Oh. 'Fuck the contract.' Great. Why don't you let Rachel speak for herself? I think she has some say in this. RACHEL  Frank stays. Spector considers her for a beat, then looks at the others. The secretary interrupts from the back of the office. SECRETARY Mr. Schiller calling on line one... Spector ignores her, still holding his look at Devaney, Rachel and Frank. SPECTOR Well, I guess this is democracy in action.
SPECTOR => I gave in. That's not easy for me. Don't I get a hug?
phone. => SPECTOR  Yeah?... Sure, put him on... Ben how are you?... uh huh...
SPECTOR => ...The Ambassador? What the hell are you trying to pull, Ben? Rachel always gets the Presidential... I don't care what you thought... Devaney leans to Frank as Spector's conversation continues in the b.g. DEVANEY Do you know the Fontainebleau Hotel in Miami Beach? Frank nods. DEVANEY How does the Ambassador Suite compare to the Presidential for us? Frank thinks only for a moment. FRANK It's on the twentieth    floor in the south wing. There's a     service elevator right there.     Mainly ocean windows. Should     be no problem. SPECTOR  ... I'm aware of that, Ben, but let me just remind you people that you invited us... Frank turns toward the door.
RACHEL =>  Hang around, Farmer. We might need your vaunted expertise. She reaches forward and hits a button on Spector's desk, throwing the call onto a speaker.
RACHEL =>  Hello, Ben honey. SCHILLER Rachel, congratulations, you must be thrilled at the...
RACHEL =>  Ben. I hear you've got me in the annex next to the kitchen.
- DAY => We COME STREAKING IN OVER the ocean TOWARD the towering white Fontainebleau. ON the SOUNDTRACK, we hear JOHN TESH'S VOICE filling the viewers in on the latest Hollywood dirt. JOHN TESH ...It's off to Sun City today for Best Actress nominee Rachel Marron. Rachel's giving two AIDS charity concerts this week at Miami's Fontainebleau Hotel. A thousand a plate no less. And rumor has it that the lovely lady has unseated the governor of Florida himself. Seems there was a showdown on who'll get to lounge in that big Fontainebleau penthouse tonight. As we CIRCLE the top floor, we see a tiny figure on the balcony. JOHN TESH Well, sleep tight in the Presidential Suite, Rachel. Who says a nomination isn't as good as winning...
the railing. => THURINGER God damn.    I'll get someone right on it.
FRANK => Okay.   Let's go.
Thuringer. => THURINGER It's okay, they've been cleared. He shows his clipboard to Frank. As the two men walk along the corridor, the guest elevator opens and a twelve-year-old boy in a bathing suit  steps out, accompanied by his nanny. In the background, hotel security men are checking fire-extinguishers and closets. THURINGER  The Katzes of St. Louis. Very prominent. Come every year. An elderly couple and three grandchildren. A nurse and a maid. They pass the little boy as he reaches the door of the Katz suite with his nanny.
THURINGER => Hi, Mark. MARK Hi. Frank smiles and nods to the nanny.
THURINGER =>  Theirs is the only suite on the floor. The two men reach the service elevator and the emergency exit door at the end of the hall. Frank opens the stair- way door and goes inside. Thuringer follows.
THURINGER => As you asked, the rooms below have been kept vacant.
elbow. => SPECTOR O.K. Rachel. It's showtime! They're rolling. Let's go. FRANK Is this really necessary?
SPECTOR => Yes.   It is. RACHEL Quit bitching, Farmer. This is the part you do get paid for. Rachel sweeps out the door.    The camera crew hurries to keep up with her.
RACHEL => Oh my God. Look what they're wearing. Mother, hide your eyes... Heads turn to look. RACHEL I couldn't wear that suit... Honey, you're naked... Of course, if I had a body like that... There is a murmur of recognition from some of the guests. She pauses to shake a hand, and now all the guests throughout the pool area are aware that Rachel Marron is among them. People stand on chairs, scramble for pens and paper, run
RACHEL =>  You look like a man of good taste to me. Come to my party tonight.  Ben, make sure this boy gets to my party. Schiller nods. Rachel glances at Frank, making sure he gets the point, and then she's off again. The throng gets tighter. Frank's having to work harder, steering her towards the door back into the hotel. The familiar chant starts up: "Rachel, Rachel." It's starting to resemble the frenzy of the opening scene. This time, amid the thrusting hands and clamoring faces, a few bewildered elderly guests look dazed as they are shoved forward. A child starts crying, lost in the mess of legs and Bermuda shorts. A distraught mother tries to reach him. Someone is jostled into the pool as the crowd surges again. Amid the chaos, whistles and scattered applause.   Rachel drinks it all in. RACHEL  Thank you. Thank you. Come tonight and give till it hurts. With a final surge, Frank makes it to the door with his party. The door closes shut behind them. A mass of distorted faces pushes onto the glass. The party walks on briskly. RACHEL  I'm beginning to wonder about your judgement, Sy. Why do I have to keep paying my dues if I've already arrived?
SPECTOR =>  Kick me, beat me... whatever makes you feel good. But let's not pretend you don't like it. We're too close for that. Whipping people into a frenzy is why you got into it in the first place. Rachel's eyes lock with  Spector's -- there's a real connec- tion and understanding  here that she spends a lot of time denying. Frank sees it   as clearly as Spector, whose tone becomes almost soothing  -- SPECTOR And it's nothing to be ashamed of, either, not for a second. It's a gift... and only a handful are given it. Many call but few are answered. SPECTOR Don't fool with the blessing, Rachel. The magic is sustained through its use. RACHEL Now you're going to tell me about magic? Give it a rest will ya... SPECTOR I'm done. Not another word...  ... I know you like to be reminded sometimes. Rachel looks away.   It's true.   He's good at his job.
Frank. => PORTMAN Hello, Farmer.
FRANK => Portman. PORTMAN Buy you a drink? FRANK Orange juice. It's been awhile. You on the job? PORTMAN  Technically I'm off duty,   but the Governor may show up here   later, so I thought I'd give it   a light check.  Someone else is covering   him right now. FRANK How old is she? PORTMAN Maybe eighteen. You working? Rachel makes her entrance, and poses self-mocking on the landing above the crowd, accepting applause. She has succeeded in under-dressing everyone in the room. She is a star. Frank nods in her direction... that's his client. PORTMAN  No kidding? I'd call that a step up from the President. Probably sings better too. RACHEL Thank you.   Thank you.   You're so right. SCATTERED LAUGHS. RACHEL I want everyone to have a good time and drink as much of Ben Schiller's liquor as you like. Rachel descends into the crowd, laughing and blowing kisses. PORTMAN Handful. Frank's look says if you only knew the half of it.
PORTMAN => I heard you had to take someone out in New York. Frank remembers. PORTMAN I lost track of you after the Reagan thing. FRANK Yeah. PORTMAN It wasn't your fault, Farmer. You weren't even there.
A pause. => PORTMAN I got a call a couple of months ago. That guy you were covering in New York. He said you'd recommended me. FRANK Surprised? PORTMAN A little. FRANK  I never doubted your skills. PORTMAN (laughs, good- natured) No. Only my qualifications for the priesthood. You were always clear about that. Anyway, I appreciate it. I had to turn it down but I appreciate it. Portman notices Rachel looking at him, as she makes her way to them. Rachel takes Frank's orange juice and sips. Makes a very funny face. RACHEL That's orange juice! Rachel gives Portman an approving once-over. RACHEL Who are you?
PORTMAN => Greg Portman. RACHEL I take it you've met my bodyguard? PORTMAN We used to work together. RACHEL (suddenly more interested) Ah... Well, well, well.    And what do you do now? PORTMAN Same thing as Farmer. RACHEL (looking between them) Two samurai, eh? Frank and Portman eye each other. RACHEL  Are you working now? PORTMAN Not right now. RACHEL Good.  'cause I'm the only one in the room who needs protection. She gives Frank a look and leads Portman into the crowd.
FRANK'S POV => Rachel leans into Portman; heads together, they whisper intimately. Rachel laughs, then for a brief moment, turns her head to look directly at Frank. Her look is petulant, defiant. Portman does not see this.
FRANK =>  Go to sleep. Frank looks out at the ocean. After a pause, in the background, Mark slips inside the Katz suite.
catching herself. => RACHEL I'm not doing this. PORTMAN  I think you are. She steps out of his embrace. RACHEL I said I was grateful.   Thank you and good night. She looks to the door that leads back to the party. The SOUNDS of CELEBRATION CONTINUE outside. She starts to cross to the door. RACHEL  Please go now. Portman moves toward her as she opens the door, reaching for her arm. Then he sees, through the doorway, Tony standing in the hall talking to a woman. Tony looks up at the sound of the door and sees them both. Rachel slips quickly out of Portman's grip. RACHEL Mr. Portman was just leaving us, Tony. Portman hesitates, then smiles at Rachel and Tony and, with a quick peck on Rachel's cheek, slips past them back to the party. Rachel briefly scans the party crowd over Tony's shoulder but she doesn't see Frank. The door closes, leaving her alone in the room again. She reaches for a bottle of Scotch and raises it to her mouth, drinking straight from the bottle.
COURT => It matches the traces in the glue, Frank. We're getting to him. We're gonna nail this fucker.
FRANK => Yeah, well, don't take too long, Ray. COURT Hey, Frank.   It's good money, isn't it? Frank hangs up.
DAY => The elevator door opens and  Frank steps out. He walks toward the entrance to  the suite and is immediately alarmed by what  he sees: there is no uniformed guard by the front  door. He unlocks the door and goes inside.
DEVANEY => I don't know. I thought you were with her.
numbers. => FRANK  Thuringer, this is Farmer. Where's your man on the door to the suite?  Well get someone up here.
FRANK => He doesn't know. They look at each other, worried. Frank walks out onto the balcony, looks round and down, comes back in. He heads for the front door. DEVANEY Where are you going?
and packages. => Frank stops dead and    watches. Rachel glances at him and goes into the living    room. Tony looks at him meaning- fully and follows.     Frank reflects for a moment, then pulls the front door    closed, oh so gently.
bedroom. => RACHEL Hello, Devaney. DEVANEY Rachel, where the hell have you been?
RACHEL => Tony and I went over to Bal Harbour. Did a little shopping. Tony comes back, a smile playing across his lips.    Frank watches near the entrance.
DEVANEY => We were worried. (looks at Frank, talks to Rachel) You know you're not supposed to do that. Frank and Rachel look at each other.
RACHEL => Farmer, you work here! Do you understand that? You work for me. DEVANEY Rachel. Frank turns and heads for the door.    Devaney looks at him anxiously. DEVANEY Farmer, where are you going? FRANK I'm gonna check the route.    As usual. He opens the front door. A uniformed guard is standing outside. Frank goes out and closes the door. RACHEL Did Fletcher call? Devaney, staring after Frank, shakes his head "no."
FRANK => Gomez!   Louis Gomez! He waits impatiently. No one comes. Two quick steps and he is back at the CRATES, throwing them violently into the corner where they CLATTER loudly to the floor. Frank walks on along the corridor.
He investigates. => An ENORMOUS CUBAN is sitting on some boxes in the shadows. He doesn't bat an eye when he sees Frank. FRANK What are you doing? ENORMOUS CUBAN Is none of you fuckin' business. FRANK Move it. The Enormous Cuban gets slowly up from the boxes.        He towers over Frank. ENORMOUS CUBAN Shove it up you ass, motherfucker. Frank has had   enough for one      afternoon. He hits the Cuban low and   hard. The man       crumples forward, hurt, but manages to   enfold Frank      in an awesome bear hug. His weight carries   them backward      in Frank's direction. The Cuban continues      moving in that direction, but Frank is no longer in his      grasp. Instead, incredibly, Frank seems to have passed      through the man's body and flicked him into the corner      of the stairwell. The Cuban hits the wall hard. Jarred but not lost, he comes up and out wielding a long mop as if it were a baseball bat. Frank steps in and      under the man's long arms and hits him four times around      the chest and jaw. Each of Frank's hands lands twice,      their movement is barely visible. The solid THUDDING      tells the story. Frank strikes both
CLEANING WOMAN => Stop! Please. Don't hurt him. Please stop! Frank looks up. A hotel CLEANING WOMAN, carrying her purse, is running towards them, tears already on her face. CLEANING WOMAN Don't hurt my husband, mister.       He not up to nothing. Frank lets the Cuban down gently and stands up. Dis- gusted with himself. Breathing hard, he leans back against the wall. The Cleaning Woman falls to her knees and hugs her husband protectively. FRANK I'm sorry. Frank steps away, rubs a hand through his hair, tries to collect himself. He's standing amidst dumpsters and discarded food boxes. He looks up and sees a marquee. RACHEL MARRON.   TONITE.   BENEFIT CONCERT.    8 P.M.
RACHEL => Fletcher? No response. RACHEL Baby, is that you? It's mommy, honey. DAN  Guess again, whore! Fuck you and fuck Miami. I'm coming for you. I know where you are and I'm coming for you...
FRANK => I'm through. I'll get you back to L.A. and that's it. The guy with Fletcher can cover you till you get a replacement.
DEVANEY => She got another call, while you were downstairs and she answered it herself. It was him, Frank. Same guy. FRANK (moving toward balcony) I don't care. DEVANEY Farmer, it really shook her up. She thought it was going to be Fletcher calling her from L.A. I think she'll be reasonable now. FRANK  Save it, Devaney. The people who hire me don't have to be convinced to save their own lives. Frank reaches the sliding door that leads to the balcony. FRANK Call me when she's ready to go down. DEVANEY Farmer -- Frank goes out on the balcony and slides the door closed behind him.
RACHEL => Farmer... Nothing that's happened between us matters... I understand now... You're going to have to believe me, because I'm not going to beg.
RACHEL => It wasn't what he said... it was the way he said it... he was so... Her voice cracks.   She stops and tries to compose herself. RACHEL I need you... I'm afraid... and I hate it. I hate my fear...  Please protect me... Protect Fletcher... If anything happened to him... Frank looks at her. Tears are destroying her elaborate stage makeup. She wipes them away with her hand. FRANK I can't protect you like this. It's impossible. The odds are on his side. RACHEL I'll do whatever you say. This is the first time Frank has ever heard Rachel say that. He studies her, then looks out at the ocean. FRANK I want to take you away for a while. Rachel nods. FRANK Somewhere people don't know about. She nods again, agreeing.
FRANK => No Spector or Devaney or Tony. He looks at her, reading her face for any hesitation. There is none.
FRANK => If you cross me up this time, I'll kill you myself. Rachel smiles, weakly but with obvious relief.
BARKING. => A van emerges from the trees, tires CRUNCHING through the snow. Frank's father, HERB, steps onto the front porch. He's in his mid-60's, lean, tan and fit. He's wearing a plaid shirt, jeans and cowboy boots. The van stops in front of the house. Frank steps out from the driver's seat and eyes his dad. FRANK Lake's a little low. HERB Fill up soon enough when she thaws.  They all in trouble? FRANK Just one.
skeptically. => RACHEL That's going to protect us? FRANK He's a trained noisemaker. RACHEL Terrific. FRANK I don't like big dogs. They don't know who they're eating.
HERB => Katherine had this place organized just the way she wanted it. (seeing her questioning look) Frank's momma. There's the COUGH and SPUTTER of an outboard MOTOR from outside. Rachel looks from the kitchen window and sees Fletcher and Frank in the small skiff by the dock. Fletcher tugs again on the starter cord.       At the third tug he tumbles backwards onto the seat. RACHEL Fletcher doesn't swim well. HERB I guess he'd better stay in the boat then. (his smile puts her at ease) Frank tells me you're a singer. RACHEL That's right. HERB I'm afraid we're a little out of touch here. I'm sorry. Rachel waves this off.
HERB => You must be very successful to need Frank. Rachel smiles and looks out of the window. RACHEL It's so quiet here. HERB Frank came back and stayed six months after the Reagan thing. Rachel's questioning look encourages Herb. HERB Frank wasn't there the day he was shot. He never got over that.  We buried Katherine that day. Rachel looks out again at Frank and Fletcher in the boat.
gesture. => Rachel looks to Frank and smiles, the wind blowing her hair. WIDE ON LAKE - DUSK CAMERA is DOWN at water level by the lake's edge. In the distance, the small boat skims across the surface. A light mist is coming up.
FRANK => I don't want anyone going out in it until you've checked it over first. Okay? Every time. Henry nods.
HENRY => Every time. FRANK Every time. In the distance, Rachel and Fletcher have just reached the house where Nicki scoops up Fletcher and spins him round and round in a circle. She hugs him close and kisses his hair.  After a few moments, Fletcher squirms free and runs to catch up with Rachel.
HERB => ... And I never hit him. Ever. To this day.  That's true, isn't it?  That's very unusual for my people. So what happens? When he's ten years old, he complains about it? Can you believe that? FRANK Oh, for Chrissake! I'm going to tell her about the time you stripped in court.
HERB =>  I don't care. I'm proud of that.  Anyway, he's ten years old and he's just started playing tackle football. He comes to me and tells me he's afraid of getting hit, right? And he thinks it's because I never hit him. 'Why don't you ever hit me?' he says to me!
FRANK =>  If you're lucky, maybe he'll tell you about my first jockstrap. As he speaks, he peers out through the window at the lake. We hear Herb's voice continue from the other room. HERB He got over it: Turned into a helluva wide receiver. He couldn't stand being afraid. When he found something that scared him, he'd just do it 'til the fear went away.
HERB => His mother was the same way. Rachel smiles at him, thinking, then looks through at Frank in the kitchen, still peering out of the windows. Nicki watches Rachel.
HERB => Come on, son, you can run but you can't hide. Herb pulls up a chair and smiles as Frank appears from the kitchen, a bowl of popcorn in his hand. Frank takes a place across from his dad by the fire. The others gather round. HERB Your move. Frank studies the board.   Rachel lowers her head into a cupped hand, fascinated. RACHEL How long has this game been going on? Frank picks up a knight, thinks, sets it back down. FRANK Three years. Nicki takes the bowl of popcorn and squats down with it beside Fletcher. Fletcher peers intently at the board as he chews on a handful. HERB He had me on the run there that first year. Frank picks up his rook, scratches his forehead with it. He turns to Fletcher. FRANK What do you think? Fletcher finishes a mouthful of popcorn, wipes his mouth. FLETCHER Knight to king-four.
boy. => FRANK City kid.
RACHEL => Well, that's it for me, I'm going to bed. She rises. Frank follows her up the stairs.   Nicki watches them go.
speaks. => Frank smiles. FRANK Good night, Rachel. Rachel accepts this. She smiles in return and touches him on the arm, very tenderly. RACHEL Good night, Frank. Rachel turns, goes to her room and closes the door.
NICKI =>  You're very thorough. VARIOUS SHOTS - AROUND INTERIOR Frank makes a circuit through the rooms of the first floor, checking windows and doors. Nicki tags along. NICKI What's happening between you and Rachel? Frank glances at her. NICKI Come on. One minute she's got magnetic hands, the next she hates you. I can't figure out what it is now. FRANK You follow all her moves this closely? NICKI  It's a living. FRANK No, it isn't. He moves away into the next room.    She hesitates a moment, then follows. NICKI You think my life is pretty sickly, don't you? FRANK No. NICKI You must.    I do. Frank steps into a tight, dark, little window alcove, checks the windows.
FRANK => Why don't you change it? NICKI Is it that easy? Frank turns from the window to find Nicki blocking his exit. She moves close to him and kisses him, her hands on his shoulders. The kiss ends and they look at each other. FRANK You're a lovely woman. NICKI But you don't want me.
NICKI => I'm surprised. Thorough fellow like you. Why stop at one sister when you can fuck them both? FRANK I make my mistakes. NICKI But you didn't say no to the boss. She starts to turn away from him, but his hands are on her now, holding her close, refusing to let her turn away. Their faces are very close.    It is tight and near here. FRANK  No, don't go away, Nicki. Don't leave me with that. Tell me about it. Tell me how long you've been second. Tell me how she has a child and you don't. Tell me something. But don't turn away and try to stick it on me. Nicki twists in his grip.    He holds her tight. NICKI I don't need this from you. FRANK Maybe I need it.     I'm fed up with people telling me    they have no control over their    lives. If you hate your life so    much, turn it around.
NICKI => It's not so simple. FRANK Yes it is. You can walk out that fucking door anytime you want. I'll unlock it for you.
NICKI => Let me go. He releases her, looks at her. FRANK Okay.     It's not my business. He moves away, OUT OF FRAME.    We HOLD ON Nicki, a long time.
FRANK => Raccoon... deer...? Herb nods. Their attention is drawn to soft singing up by the house.
HERB => I've never heard church music in the middle of the week before.
FRANK => Where's Fletcher? Henry appears at the porch of the house, carrying a fishing rod as he comes out. At that instant, the sound of the OUTBOARD MOTOR CRACKLES through the air. Frank's head snaps toward the boathouse. Henry, in the distance, looks quickly at the boathouse, then to Frank.
HENRY =>  Frank! I haven't... But Frank is already moving, leaping from the porch and starting to run flat out toward the boathouse and dock. Rachel turns to look. The skiff appears out of the boathouse, Fletcher at the motor, the boat's lone occupant. The boat moves slowly away from the boathouse, parallel to the dock. Frank is running toward the water with everything he's got, his face contorted. The sound of the OUTBOARD drowns out his voice as he yells. FRANK Fletcher!   Fletcher! IN BOAT Fletcher, intent on his piloting, neither hears nor sees Frank running down the lawn behind him. The boat is approaching the end of the dock. DOCK Frank finally makes it to the dock and continues to sprint after the boat. His weight rattles the boards as he runs. IN BOAT Fletcher passes the end of the dock and gives the throttle a little twist. DOCK
RACHEL =>  No!   He can't swim! IN WATER Frank holds the terrified, shaking Fletcher in his arms. Fletcher begins to cry. Frank paddles with him toward the dock. The empty boat swerves, then continues out toward the center of the lake.
DOCK => Henry and Rachel are already    at the end of the dock. Nicki and Herb are running toward    it. Rachel is livid, hysterical. Henry peers out at the boat,    which continues to bounce innocently across the water,    defining a broad curve. RACHEL Fletcher, baby. Are you all right? Baby. Fletcher, spluttering, is handed up to Rachel by Frank. Rachel hugs Fletcher to her. Herb bends down to check he's breathing properly, wrapping the boy in his jacket. HERB He's all right. Henry helps Frank up out of the water.    Frank sits on the end of the dock, breathing hard. RACHEL What are you doing? You out of your mind? You're crazy!  You're all right, baby.  You could have drowned him! Frank and Henry look out toward the boat which has come to a stop out in the middle of the lake. FRANK I'm sorry.   I got careless. Henry looks at Frank.    He feels terrible about not checking the boat. HENRY Frank, I'm sorry. I should have...
HERB => It's okay, Henry. Herb puts his hand on Fletcher's head. HERB You all right now, son?
Nicki screams. => Frank sits down again. He shakes his head. On an impulse, he stretches out his hand, palm downward.   It's trembling slightly.
162F => Frank slides out from under the van. The hood is up. Henry stands nearby. Frank goes to the driver's seat. FRANK  Back off. Henry moves away from the van.   Frank inserts the key in the ignition.
HERB => Frank! Henry turns and motions to Herb to stay away.
NICKI =>  I was an idiot last night. There is a long pause. NICKI What do you think about today? FRANK  I think this is no maniac.   He knows what he's doing. There is a long, long silence.   Nicki continues crying. Finally -- NICKI You're right. He does. FRANK Tell me about it. She doesn't reply. FRANK Who is it, Nicki? NICKI He almost got Fletcher today... FRANK How do we stop him? NICKI ...my darling Fletcher... FRANK Who is it? NICKI
FRANK => You can call him off.
NICKI =>  He doesn't even know who hired him. He doesn't know who I am and I don't know who he is. FRANK How'd you do it?
brink. => FRANK How? NICKI ...I went to a bar in East L.A. I asked around... I talked to a man... FRANK Name? NICKI  ...Armando... He arranged it. That's all I know... FRANK Is it all paid for? NICKI  ... and then some... Till it's done. FRANK He keeps going until he kills her? Nicki nods again, lowering her face into her hands. FRANK What's the name of the bar? NICKI I'm not sure... I was very stoned. FRANK How 'bout the letters?
NICKI =>  No, no. You don't understand. The letters came first. I don't know who's sending them... but they're reading my mind... Those were my thoughts. I hate her. It made me think I could do it... But I could never hurt Fletcher. Never.  You've got to stop it! FRANK We will. You and me. Tomorrow we're going back to L.A. We're going to find the bar, we're going to find Armando. He starts to rise.    She stops him. NICKI Don't you even want to know why? FRANK You told me.     She has everything. Frank stands up and begins to move across the room. Nicki puts her face in her hands and is silent for one moment. Suddenly, Frank freezes, listening. NICKI What if we can't -- Frank motions her into silence. We strain to hear what Frank hears. Silently, Frank goes to the door, crouch ing. He listens. There again is a DISTANT GROWL from the DOG upstairs. Frank lifts his gun from the table, turns to Nicki. FRANK Stay here.    Don't move. Nicki's face shows true terror. Frank is out the door.
issue pistol. => HERB It's me! Rachel's voice comes from her room. RACHEL What's happening? The terrier suddenly starts barking loudly.
NICKI => No, no... stop... I'm the one who...
RACHEL => Frank?
fast. => FRANK  Stay with Rachel! Henry's head appears round the doorway of Herb's room.
FRANK =>  Dad?
HERB => We're okay! FRANK Stay with Rachel! The DOG continues to BARK upstairs. Frank sees a slight movement outside and window to his right. A split-second moment of decision. He heads off rapidly down the hall, away from the open door.
RACHEL => What's happening? Where's Nicki? HERB Be quiet!
Minella. => MINELLA But, Frank, this doesn't make sense... FRANK What do you mean? MINELLA We already got him. FRANK What?   Where?
MINELLA => Here, last night. You should see his locker, Frank. The guy's obsessed with Rachel Marron... FRANK You're sure it's him? MINELLA Forensics say it's 100 percent positive I.D... And he's got a black Toyota 4 x 4. Ray's with him now. MINELLA'S POV Sitting in the observation room at a table talking to Ray Court is Dan. He looks frightened and confused.
FRANK => Well, whoever you got down there wasn't here last night. This was a professional... MINELLA This is crazy... What do you want to do, Frank? FRANK How long can you keep him?
MINELLA => Well technically all he's done is write some letters. 48 hours maximum. You know the deal.
the darkness. => FLETCHER You okay, Frank? Frank acknowledges Fletcher's small presence standing to the side of the big chair. He doesn't look at him directly. FRANK Yeah, Fletcher, I'm okay.     How 'bout you? FLETCHER I couldn't sleep... It was so scary, just thinking about it... He looks at Frank.
FLETCHER => Do you feel scared, Frank? FRANK Yeah, Fletcher, I do.
FRANK => Everybody's afraid of something, Flethcer. That's how we know we care about something, when we're afraid we'll lose it.
FLETCHER => What are you afraid of? FRANK I think you should try to go back to sleep now, pal. FLETCHER Tell me, Frank, please. Is it the man who killed Nicki? Are you afraid of him? Finally, Frank turns and looks at Fletcher.    Frank is pretty far gone. He shakes his head "no."     He realizes that that kind of fear had never occurred to   him, and recognizing that fact sets him back into his   thoughts. FLETCHER Then what?    What are you afraid of? Frank doesn't have the will to resist anymore.    He lets his hand drop away from Fletcher. FRANK I'm afraid... of not being there... Fletcher stares at him, uncomprehending. FRANK It's late. Do you want me to take you back to your room? Fletcher shakes his head "no," just barely.    Then he disappears.
hits him. => RACHEL  You, you, you... You brought this pain into my house... Now you're here! Where were you then? Why didn't you save her? It was your job to protect me and she died doing it... It was me they were after. And you let them kill her!  She never did anything to anyone. As she loses the strength and the will to hit him, her blows become sloppy, weak. She sinks to the steps, sitting on them, sobbing. RACHEL She never hurt anyone. She was good. (she looks at him; entreats him) You saw her. She never wished anyone any harm. Did she? Did she? Frank looks at her, shakes his head "no." Rachel puts her head in her hands and is silent for a few moments; her crying slows. RACHEL  She never hurt a soul.  ... I didn't love her well enough. I didn't take care of her...  ... She gave me only love.
RACHEL => I guess you've heard what's happening. Frank nods. RACHEL Mind if I sit down? Frank shakes his head. They sit side by side for awhile, both lost in thought. Rachel seems very calm. RACHEL It isn't over yet, is it? Frank shakes his head. FRANK He knows he still hasn't got you. RACHEL So he'll come again?
FRANK => It's possible. RACHEL The Oscars?
FRANK => Maybe. Rachel takes this philosophically.     She tugs at the grass, thinking. RACHEL When I was back in Squirrel Hill, I started betting my friends fifty bucks each that someday I'd win an Oscar. You can understand how important it is that they see me up there if I win. She looks at him and smiles. RACHEL If everyone of those pikers comes through, it could add up to a lot of money. FRANK I think it's very dangerous. RACHEL I know. But I can't stay up here on my hill forever. They are silent for awhile.     Rachel lies back on the grass, stares at the sky. RACHEL I didn't get to this place in my life by doing the smart thing every time.  How 'bout you, Frank Farmer? Out there on the edge... did you ever do something that didn't make too much sense, except maybe inside you? In your stomach somewhere? Something that wasn't smart?  I'll bet you have plenty. I'll bet you do. Nobody gets really good without it. And you're good. I know that. She sits up beside him.
RACHEL => I don't know why all this has happened to me...  ... but I do know that none of it's your fault. I hope you can hear me, because this is how I say I'm sorry. Frank accepts. RACHEL  So... I'm going to go see if I win an Oscar. And I won't worry about it at all. Because I've got you to protect me. Frank almost smiles. FRANK That's right. He looks at her a long time, then takes her in his arms. He kisses her and lays her down. His body moves over hers. Like a bodyguard, protecting her from the night.
FRANK => Tony knows what he's doing. Tony looks at Frank, surprised and not a little pleased with the unexpected support.
RACHEL => I wish you boys would relax a little. Nothing bad's gonna happen out there, alright?  Unless I lose the fucking award. She looks around at the men, all are tense.
RACHEL => Jesus, what a crew. Rachel leans forward and flips down the mirror on the panel in front of her and checks her appearance. The limo moves up. RACHEL Screw it. I'm through worrying. When your number's up, it's up. Right, Farmer? The limo is almost at the red carpet.   Frank slips out the front door of the moving limo.
FRANK'S POV => as he surveys the busy scene. A microphoned M.C. peers into Rachel's limo and walks toward it. M.C. ... Miss Rachel Marron! ON TV CAMERA MONITOR we see Rachel wave to the crowd. M.C. Everyone wishes you the best tonight, Rachel. Frank leads the small procession down the red carpet. Fans reach out asking for his autograph. FRANK'S POV
their walkie-talkies. => Rachel's smile is convincing, lovely, professional. Spector, Devaney and Tony look strained. As they enter, a WIDE SHOT from across the street shows their limo pulling ahead as the next car pulls up. The CAMERA TRACKS SIDEWAYS to reveal the rear fender of a Toyota 4X4 parked in the foreground.
hand. => A harried associate producer SKIP THOMAS, comes up to Rachel, settled in an armchair. Tony stands nearby, Frank leans against a far wall. SKIP Hello, Rachel. I need to get you straight on your responsibilities. RACHEL Sure, Skip. Skip takes a typewritten sheet from a sheaf in his hand and gives it to Rachel. He consults a clipboard as he speaks. There, laid out minute by minute, is the order of the evening's events. Each one has a precise time printed beside it, including those that involve Rachel. SKIP Now, it's Best Sound, then another song, then you. At precisely -- 8:07, you'll be presenting with Clive Healy. Those are your lines. The prompter's straight ahead and -- we pray -- working perfectly. Rachel nods. RACHEL
someday, Skip. => Skip smiles and walks off, glancing up at the clock. 7:43. CLIVE HEALY, a slim British actor appears, bows and kisses Rachel's hand.
CLIVE => I understand it's my great honor to escort you onstage. RACHEL That's right, Clive. And I don't like it one bit that you look skinnier than me.
the world. => PATRICIA ... And the award for Best Achievement in Sound goes to Kay Colvin and Mychal Smith for Hot And Cold. Applause. KAY Thank you so much. I want to thank our producers, Karen Golden and Ed Gorsuch, as well our sound crew -- Richard Goodman and Blair Forward. I'm too excited -- but they're the real winners tonight. Thank you! MICHAEL This is wonderful. This is like, the happiest moment of my life. I'd like to thank our wonderful sound crew for all the evenings and weekends they sacrificed, the incredible wizards down at Distant Thunder Sound Studios, Roger and Greg for hiring us and my family for being so patient. We did it! Thank you! TIME JUMP:
Portman. => FRANK Portman.   What are you doing here? PORTMAN I'm on the job. FRANK Who? PORTMAN Him. Portman points at a nearby TV monitor.      On screen, Reardon is introducing the next song. REARDON  My mother has always thought I was the star of every movie I've been in. You remember 'Night Of The Stranger'? Applause. REARDON You probably don't remember me in that. My mother can tell you about it. To this day, she thinks it's about a desk clerk at the hotel where what's-his-name is hiding out from the cops.
Laughter. => REARDON Now it's time to hear the final nominated song, from the film 'Queen Of The Night' -- 'I Have Nothing.' And here to sing it for us, the multi-talented Miss Sandra Castle! PORTMAN  Short-term gig... but quite profitable... Listen, Frank, I'm sorry about Miami. You know, nothing really happened... I felt bad for you... I wanted to say something, but you disappeared... (NOTE: "I Have Nothing" fanfare. Dancers onto stage. First section of song, commencing with shortened chorus then first verse Reardon walks off the stage ten feet from where Frank and Portman are standing, glances at them and moves off down the hall. PORTMAN Back to work. I'll probably see you at the Governor's Ball. Portman walks off after Reardon.    Frank watches him, thoughtful. ON TV MONITOR - Sandra Castle sings "I Have Nothing" with great feeling. The lyrics recall the text of the death threat. FRANK'S FACE suddenly wary.    No rational cause.   Something in the air. THE CLOCK - 7:58
RACHEL => I want that broad run out of town.
FRANK => Tony, you there?
TONY =>  Yeah, Frank. FRANK Tony, I've got a feeling this is the night. I think he's gonna go for her in front of all the cameras. The kind of thing only a lunatic would do. That's how he wants it to look. Except he isn't a lunatic. He's very clever. I need you to help me. TONY  I'm with you, Frank. There's no more competition between them. Three sound technicians appear at Frank's side, very agitated. TECHNICIAN  You can't use that thing back here. The  breakthrough's killing our radio mikes... We'll have to disconnect you. Reluctantly, Frank disconnects his earpiece.
195A => Tony fiddles with his earpiece. TONY Frank?... Frank? Technicians approach Tony, too.
frightened. => RACHEL  What's wrong? Skip Thomas appears at her side. SKIP Rachel... Clive. Let's go, okay? Clive Healy comes over. Rachel must tear her eyes away from Frank. Tony floats up behind them. Skip regards him with irritation and turns to Frank. SKIP  Really. Must we have everyone? We have our own men at the door. FRANK Tony stays. Skip looks at Rachel for a response. RACHEL Yes!    I want him. Skip shrugs.    Clive takes Rachel's arm. CLIVE Come, Rachel, let us brighten the firmament. Rachel forces a smile, but her eyes follow Frank as he starts to lead the way out of the Green Room. On an impulse, she reaches for something from the makeup table and presses it into her hand. It's the Russian Orthodox cross. She clutches it like a talisman and follows Frank. Tony brings up the rear.
CLIVE => Try to relax, Rachel. I know you must be very excited. Skip leads them to a set of temporary stairs behind the scenery; they lead to the center of the top tier. Production aides with clipboards and headphones wait up there. THE CLOCK - 8:05 SKIP  Rachel, you'll go in there and Clive, you over there. You'll meet on the landing. They both nod, but Rachel is distracted, tense. SKIP Watch your step going down. Someone spilled some water. Clive and Rachel climb the stairs. Rachel turns once more to look anxiously at Frank. She clutches the cross but he doesn't see. Frank watches them ascend. He signals Tony to stay there until Rachel goes on. Frank moves off toward the stage left wings. ON TV MONITOR - we see Reardon, acting as Master of Ceremonies, doing the introductions. REARDON  I used to have an outfit just like that... And to present the Best Song award we have our debonair friend from England and the lady who has everything -- Clive Healy and Rachel Marron! A red camera light clicks on. MUSIC UP, APPLAUSE, as we see Clive and Rachel make their entrances on the TV monitor.
the audience. => CLOSE ON HER HANDS as they squeeze the cross. CLIVE Over the course of the evening we've heard five smashing songs and the names of the artists who created them.
fit. => CLIVE And I know that no matter what anyone thinks, you have no personal favorites.
CLIVE => The Best Song nominees are: "Clock On The Wall" from 'The Dining Room Table' -- By Dana S. Lee and Sara Spring. 'Give Me Your Trust' from 'Out Of the Gloom' -- By David Siegel and Barbara G. Gordon. "I Have Nothing" from 'Queen Of The Night' -- By Nancy Garbor. "Maybe Soon" from 'Maybe Soon' -- Anne Trop and Ben Glass. And "Reflections Of My Heart" from 'Hot And Cold' -- By Leslie Moraes. QUICK CUT TO: RACHEL'S POV An usher near the wall shifts his weight. The orchestra conductor turns to look at her. A musician turns his sheet music. The dark at the back of the balcony. The teleprompter. CLOSE ON FRANK as he alone hears the CLICKING -- monitors her distress and fear. ON STAGE RACHEL (blurting her prompter lines) All right, Clive, let's find out --
RACHEL =>  -- let's find out who the winner is.
CLIVE => The envelope. Rachel, shall I do the honors? INTERCUT -- RACHEL'S POV - CLIVE'S HANDS
RACHEL'S FACE => watching. The CLICKING is almost deafening -- like a heartbeat. THE CLOCK The second hand ticks in enormous CLOSEUP.       It's 8:07.
CLOSE => as Clive pulls the card out of the envelope.       It reads: "I HAVE NOTHING" Music by Rachel gasps, stifles a scream. CLIVE And the winner is "I Have Nothing"
NANCY GARBOR => This is so exciting. I can't begin to describe what it feels like to stand here -- with this! APPLAUSE. NANCY GARBOR First, I want to thank Rachel Marron. Without her support, encouragement and determination to help get an unknown songwriter heard, I wouldn't be standing here. A lot of people talk about how they're going to help others once they make it themselves, but Rachel really follows through. I'd also like to thank Helen Pollak, a wonderful producer, who never got fed up with me.
STAR #1 => I always said she was nuts.    I've always said that. Clive Healy comes up. CLIVE Is she all right? He is assured that she is.       Clive goes out to his seat
RACHEL => Christ, what an idiot I am. Jesus. What the hell's the matter with me? Frank moves up closer, and exchanges looks with Tony, who is confused by Rachel's behavior. Rachel turns toward Frank and, in so doing, brings the man comforting her around to face Frank. It is Reardon. RACHEL Farmer, you've made me a raving lunatic. Frank barely hears Rachel, so struck is he   by Reardon's presence. Frank looks around them quickly    for Portman. Rachel looks at Frank with irritation and   turns back toward the Green Room. A production aide    signals Reardon. REARDON  I have to go back out.   Are you okay? RACHEL Thank you for your help, John. I'm fine. Rachel walks off toward the Green Room with Tony. Reardon starts to walk out toward the stage. Frank stops him. Reardon is irritated. FRANK Where's Portman? REARDON Who? FRANK Portman. REARDON  Never heard of him. Reardon walks out on stage. Frank is left standing alone. All the weariness comes back, all his senses start to hum. Frank looks around, then moves off toward the Green Room.
SPECTOR => Honey, everything's fine. No one noticed anything. Everybody in this building is ready to jump out of their skin from nerves. RACHEL Bullshit, you saw me. Farmer's made me a raving lunatic -- FRANK Something's going on you should know about -- SPECTOR You're making her crazy.   You're making us all crazy. FRANK Rachel, I know who it is. He's here tonight. I think he's... RACHEL Shut up... This is the last straw. She throws down the powder and stands up fast, makeup and purse flying. The powder com- pact bursts over the cross lying on the table. Everyone in the Green Room looks at her. RACHEL  Shut up, you maniac! You never stop. Now you've made an ass of me in front of a billion people. And you won't quit. They stare at each other and everyone else stares at them.
FRANK => Tony, it's Portman.   Remember?   The guy from Miami... Spector grabs Tony's sleeve, pulling him back. SPECTOR After tonight, you're back in charge. TONY What? SPECTOR He knows nothing about show business. Tony squares off with Spector. TONY You are an asshole.
REARDON => Presenting the Best Actress award, we have the man who last year received the top honor an actor can achieve for his performance in "South Of Waco". Ladies and gentlemen, Tom Winston! APPLAUSE Frank watches, his eyes scanning, searching the vast theatre, squinting as he tries to see beyond the glare of the klieg lights and the cameras. WINSTON Thank you, John, thank you, Academy.
LAUGHTER => WINSTON on stage, speaking and then listing the nominees. FRANK'S POV - RACHEL, DEVANEY AND SPECTOR in their seats, up the aisle toward the back of the theatre, high into the gloom of the balcony. ANGLE ON STAGE WINSTON Tonight we give this award not to the best actress, but to the best performance by one of five exquisitely talented artists... FRANK'S FACE - searching. TV CAMERA - focused on the audience.    Its red light goes on. ON SCREEN Rachel's face, expectant, nervous on the screen. FRANK'S POV - THE PATH Rachel would have to take to the stage, the steps to the stage, the faces of the ushers near the stage, the conductor, ready to play theme music. WINSTON ...And the nominees for best performance by an actress in a leading role are -- Constance Simpson for Hot and Cold... BACK TO SCENE APPLAUSE. Frank slips through the curtained doorway that leads to the backstage. WINSTON ...Ellen Pearson for Maybe Soon... More APPLAUSE.
FRANK'S POV => In the wings of the opposite side of the stage, half hidden by a curtain, a TV cameraman is hoisting his lightweight portable camera onto his shoulder. His back is to us.
WINSTON => ... Rachel Marron for Queen Of The Night... APPLAUSE. ANGLE ON FRANK FRANK Tony, I want you on the other side... and check out that guy. He's not supposed to be there... Tony trots off quickly. FRANK'S POV The cameraman half-turns toward us, peering past the curtain into the audience. For a split second, we glimpse his face. It's Portman. Then someone crosses quickly in front of him and he's gone. WINSTON L.C. Dean for I Dream Of Peace ...and Evelyn Gardner for The Harper Plan... APPLAUSE. BACKSTAGE Frank draws his gun. He glances quickly to Tony, but Tony's already on his way, trotting round the labyrinth behind the set. Frank automatically raises his sleeve to call to Tony, then realizes his communications are useless. He tries to see where Portman has disappeared to, but he daren't lose sight of Rachel. ONSTAGE - WINSTON
with envelope. => WINSTON And the winner is... Rachel Marron for Queen Of The Night. FLASH CUT TO:
FRANK'S FACE => grim.   He looks past the curtain to Rachel. FRANK'S POV - AUDITORIUM Deafening applause in the main auditorium. A stunned Rachel stands. Devaney and Spector kiss her. People nearby reach out to touch her. Rachel walks along her row. The orchestra plays "I Have Nothing."
freezes. => FRANK'S POV As Rachel reaches the center aisle and starts to walk toward the steps, there in the far aisle, his face almost hidden, is Portman -- the camera, hand-held on his shoulder, moving level with Rachel, 20 feet behind her.
AISLE => Rachel walks down the aisle toward the side steps. Tears in her eyes. Thunderous applause. Security guards in the side aisles look around in all directions. They can't see anything. FRANK'S POV TIGHT ON Portman, now almost completely obscured behind the members of the audience, as more and more of them stand to applaud Rachel. PORTMAN'S POV ALONG THE SIDE OF THE CAMERA. Rachel keeps appearing and disappearing behind the heads of the audience. FRANK IN THE WINGS Desperate to get a clear shot at Portman but unable to fire without hitting a bystander. FROM STAGE RIGHT WINGS - FRANK'S POV OF RACHEL as she  approaches the podium, steadily, controlling herself  as she mounts the steps. The outline of her body becomes  difficult to see against the glare of the foot- lights  and the lights at the side of the auditorium. FRANK'S FACE His eyes squint against the dazzle. ON STAGE - PODIUM Rachel approaches Winston.   The applause and music is
deafening. => FRANK'S FACE He can't see Portman past the glare. He can't fire into the audience. He knows Rachel is now at her most vulner- able. There is only one thing he can do to protect his charge. BACKSTAGE WINGS Frank runs on stage at terrific speed and leaps through the air at Rachel, twisting his body as he does.
RACHEL => No! CLOSE ON PORTMAN The silenced PISTOL taped to the side of the camera FIRES. ONCE. TWICE. ON STAGE Frank and Rachel tumble over on the floor. The podium topples. There are screams from the audience. AUDITORIUM Pandemonium breaks out. Men run on stage from all directions. Guns are drawn. Everyone is shouting. TV cameras whip-pan in all directions, security men shout into walkie-talkies. QUICK CUT TO: Chaos on all screens. TV DIRECTOR What the fuck? OTHER VOICE Go to commercial...
RACHEL => He's my bodyguard. Get off him! He's O.K... FRANK'S POV - SERIES OF SHOTS A SERIES of SWIFT LOW ANGLE SHOTS through legs and faces. One brief glimpse that could be Portman. A cameraman turns. It's not. Frank is desperate, pushing away a helping arm. The chaos mounts. SIRENS WAIL outside.
TONY =>  Frank! Frank! Over here! ON STAGE
PORTMAN => Against the side wall at the front, Portman's eyes desperately scan for the source of the voice. He sees Tony, his pistol takes aim. FRANK'S POV For a split second, two running figures f.g. pass and cross leaving a momentary clear line to Portman. ON STAGE Frank FIRES.   ONCE.   TWICE. PORTMAN Frank's bullets hit home. The first slams Portman in the chest, knocking him against the wall. The second hits the CAMERA on his shoulder, EXPLODING it around his face. FEMALE ACADEMY MEMBER Blood spatters her white Armani dress and the shirt- front of her escort. Portman's body slumps forward in her lap, pinning her back in her seat. He's dead. His pistol drops onto a pair of shiny, black leather pumps. ON STAGE Frank holds his aim steady, reluctant to look away. He half turns to Rachel, wincing with the effort. She's unhurt. He has fulfilled his promise to her. Rachel throws her arms around Frank and hugs him, tears streaming down her cheeks.
her bodyguard. => She greets some members of the band and others who will be part of her entourage. A roadie has her luggage removed from the limo and loaded aboard the plane. Devaney is trying to hurry her on board. Spector is conspicuous by his absence. As Rachel and the others prepare to get onto the plane, Tony, wearing a dark leather eyepatch, reacts to something O.S. Frank approaches from the nearby parking area. He is pale. Under his clothes it can be seen that his torso is still taped. He smiles as Tony. Their handshake becomes a quick abrazo. FRANK  How's it going?
TONY => Under control. But it won't be the same... ya mutt. Tony fakes a glancing blow to Frank's chin. Over by the plane, Fletcher spots Frank and tugs at Rachel's dress, till she turns to look. Fletcher runs up to Frank and hugs him around the knees. Rachel approaches and Tony moves back toward the plane. Devaney waves in Frank's direction, tapping his watch to indicate they are late. Frank waves and smiles. Rachel's surprised to see Frank, but clearly happy. Fletcher is ecstatic. RACHEL You shouldn't be here. Frank laughs.    There is a pause. RACHEL So, you're quitting show business? FRANK Yeah. RACHEL Too bad. You had talent.      What are you going to do? FRANK I thought I might hole up with my dad.  Finish that chess game. Rachel nods approvingly. RACHEL Get him when Fletcher's not around. FRANK (ruffling Fletcher's hair) That's the idea. Fletcher grins.   Rachel starts to cry. FRANK So, how's the new guy? RACHEL He's got white hair, Frank.
FRANK => He's very good. RACHEL Why'd you have to get me an old man? FRANK I don't trust you. RACHEL Yeah... well, give me a kiss and let's get this over with.
FRANK => 'Bye Rachel. Rachel turns quickly. She almost runs up the boarding ladder. Frank remains watching her. Fletcher looks back over his shoulder as they disappear into the plane.
the aisle. => DEVANEY That wasn't so bad.  You okay? Rachel is in her own world. Devaney passes the word to get moving. The ENGINES WARM UP. Rachel turns and sees Frank still standing there looking at her. The pilot's hand pushes forward on the throttle. The nosewheel starts to taxi.    The plane moves forward. Rachel's face at the window. RACHEL Wait...
with tears. => RACHEL Remember when you said you'd risk your life for me? Frank tries to break in, but she won't let him interrupt.
RACHEL => I didn't really believe it then. Nobody means what they say. But you did, Frank. You did it. You laid it all on the line for me. Frank tries to speak, she puts her hands to his lips. RACHEL Don't wreck this for me. I don't want to hear any bullshit about you just doing your job. You did more than save my life, Frank. You showed me a way to be. And I love you for it.  There, I said it.  I'll never forget what it felt like to be under your eye. Never. FRANK  I won't be forgetting you either. She presses something into Frank's hand. RACHEL Here... I want you to keep this. If you ever need me, you just put this on and no matter where you are I will find you.  I promise. She gives him a quick kiss and walks back toward the plane, her eyes holding Frank's. Frank opens his palm to reveal the little enamel cross. ON FRANK as the engines roar and the plane turns to taxi out.
RACHEL => Thank you... Thank you... Now I want to sing you an old song, but it's a new favorite. As the music begins, Rachel stands alone in front of the band, mike in hand.
RACHEL => You know, this song used to make me feel sad... But it doesn't anymore. Rachel pauses.   The audience is still. RACHEL Now it just reminds me of someone very special... This is for him. Rachel begins to sing the song 'WHAT BECOMES OF THE BROKEN HEARTED' - slow and sweet. It's the song she and Frank danced to.    As a VERSE TRAILS OFF --
ROTARY PRESIDENT => Our speaker this evening, the honorable congressman from the fifth district, Galen Windsor, has been a lone, courageous, voice... he alone has challenged those who have linked organized crime with legitimate business throughout our state. STILL TRACKING, we see the Rotary  President as he nods to a distinguished-looking gentleman  one seat to his right. On the wall a sign identifying the  hotel and a club banner which reads -- "THE ROTARY  CLUB OF IOWA CITY." The CAMERA CONTINUES to TRACK and  the Rotary President goes OUT OF FRAME.
ROTARY PRESIDENT => But first our benediction will be delivered by Reverend Phillip Hardy of the First Presbyterian Church. STILL TRACKING we see the Reverend get up as the men around him bow their heads. REVEREND HARDY Heavenly Father, please bless us today as we meet in friendship and duty. STILL TRACKING as we REACH the end of the table. REVEREND HARDY And Lord, whatever dangerous endeavors those among us may take, let them never be without your sanctuary. The CAMERA STOPS. Standing against the wall behind the table is Frank. As the Reverend's prayer goes on, all heads are bowed to receive the benediction. All heads but Frank's. The CAMERA MOVES IN TIGHT ON his face. REVEREND HARDY ... For all we know in our hearts that even though we may walk through the valley of the shadow of death, you are with us... guiding and protecting us. Amen. The Reverend's final words segue into Rachel's song. Frank's searching gaze around the room is arrested for a moment as though reacting to Rachel's voice.