WHITE SCREEN => which transforms to a milky white and eventually into a bright high noon sun. A large black bird flies in circles overhead. As it wipes the sun a bright flare causes... CLOSEUP - PAIR OF EYES to squint, then adjust to the light and finally open.    They look tired, but content, maybe even relaxed. CLOSEUP - MAN
another world. => DISSOLVE TO: SUPERSCRIPT:    OCTOBER, 1963. A small country town. Normally quiet at this hour, the street is tonight alive with trick or treaters dressed as witches, goblins and superheroes making their annual door to door rounds. GLADYS PERRY, 30 going on 45 due to single motherhood and having worked two fulltime minimum wage jobs the past ten years, looks out the window with disgust and pulls the curtains closed. Gladys retreats   from the sparsly decorated living room to the predictably drab   linoleum kitchen. At the table, hands on their laps, sit   her children, NAOMI and RUTH, twin girls aged 10, and PHILLIP,   a quiet boy of 8. 
RUTH => Phillip could go as a bump on a log. The girls giggle and Phillip frowns. PHILLIP Why can't we go just once? NAOMI Caus' we jus' can't, ok? Gladys sets milk and butter on the table and stares directly at her son. GLADYS Our personal beliefs lift us to a higher place. 'Sides, Halloween is nothing but the Devil's work.
PHILLIP => Hey, Billy Reeves. SUPERMAN How'd ya' know it was me? GLADYS Go eat your supper, Phillip. MR. HUGHES Come on, kids. Let's go to the next house. Sorry for the bother. Gladys closes the door firmly and locks it. A green Impala pulls up to the main entrance and stops. A GUARD steps from his office to greet the driver, LARRY, a pudgy 55-year-old prison employee wearing a loud plaid jacket.
GUARD => Evenin', Larry.   Forget somethin'? LARRY Goin' to Austin tomorrow.      Gonna' take some work with me. GUARD Work, work, work. When you and me gonna' go out and grab a cold one? LARRY Sooner the better. The gate opens and the Impala passes.
BUTCH => Damn if the old man ain't right. Jerry smiles, turns and grabs the old man by the shirt.
JERRY => And this goes to the roof? OLD TIMER Used to... afore they walled it over. JERRY If it don't I'm gonna' rip your tongue out. OLD TIMER Get yer' damn hands off me! Jerry laughs and joins Butch, who is already well on his way to bending open a slot in a corrugated metal air shaft hidden behind the wall. Superman and Dancing Skeleton, no longer with adult super- vision, fill water balloons at an outdoor water spigot.
SUPERMAN => Make 'em small so you can heave 'em. An assembly line at the kitchen sink as the twins wash and Phillip dries the evening dishes. Gladys sits at the kitchen table, reading religious pamphlets and keeping a watchful eye over the process. Several THUDS resound through the house. PHYLLIS What in the world? Phillip jumps down off his stool and races into the living room.
SUPERMAN => Bombs away! Dancing Skeleton does his best Warren Spahn and tosses a wet fastball at the door. SKELETON Here's your trick! At the window, Phillip, his nose pressed to the pane, stares expressionless at the onslaught. He barely flinches as a BALLOON SPLATS only inches away. Gladys arrives and pulls the curtains shut once more. 11A   EXT. PRISON - NIGHT                                         11A Butch kicks the top off a ventilator shaft and rolls onto the roof. Jerry follows as Butch shimmies to the wall. At the edge, Butch and Jerry survey the yard as a searchlight routinely bathes the walls in a circle of light. 11B   THEIR POV - GREEN IMPALA                                    11B parked almost directly below them, next to the Administration office of the prison. JERRY You'n'me must be livin' right, Butchie boy! BUTCH Let's get something straight. I don't like you. As soon as we're on our way, that's it. JERRY Who said I liked you? Butch slides down and hangs from the ledge before dropping on the roof of the building below. A SOFT THUD causes a Guard to look up, but only momentarily as he spots Larry departing, files in hand, waving goodbye. GUARD Have a safe trip now, Larry.
BUTCH =>  Keep yer' mouth shut. JERRY  Gawd I'd love to blow yer' head off.
GUARD => 'Night, Larry. stuffed and hidden half on the floor and half under the mats are Jerry and Butch. JERRY 'Night, Larry. 16    OMITTED                                                         16 16A   INT. SMALL, WELL-LIT DINER - NIGHT                              16A A weathered finger drops a quarter in a jukebox.
MAN => B-5.   Haven't heard that one in awhile. The woman, MAE, 45, a dog-tired waitress, punches in the numbers and returns to her post behind the counter. A lonesome HANK WILLIAMS tune pours forth. MAE Not since last night.     How's the pie? RED GARNETT, 60, a grizzled but handsome Texas Ranger, sits at the counter slowly chewing. RED Kinda rubbery.   It was better yesterday. 
MAE => Naw, Red Garnett, you don't come in here for the coffee and pie. You come in here for the company. To see me. Another patrol car races past.   Red's eyes follow it.
MAE => Now that I've said that, I'll go   one better. What say I cook you dinner at my   place sometime? Steaks, baked taters,    cold beer, the works. Well?... I'm askin'    you out. She turns to face Red but he's gone. A coupla dollars lie next to the half-eaten pie. All she can do is sigh.
SERGEANT => Long time, no see. What are you doin' here, Chief? RED Couldn't sleep.   Whattaya got? 
SERGEANT => No can do.   Police jurisdiction. Red tastes the coffee -- cold. He spits it out, pours the contents of the cup on the ground and walks toward the front yard. Sergeant follows. RED And how are you guys doin'? SERGEANT We got specific rules to follow in these kinda situations, Red.  He won't talk. Jus' keeps yellin', crying and waving his gun around. Red moves forward into the yard. SERGEANT At least use the megaphone, you stubborn jackass! But Red ignores and arrives at the front door.   He knocks. RED Hayden, this is Red Garnett. We worked together a few years back. Mind if I come in? The YELLING inside STOPS and the door opens a crack.   HAYDEN, 35, distraught, peers out. HAYDEN 'Evenin', Chief. RED Leave it to the P.D. They got a three- ring circus out there and not one cup of hot coffee. You mind? Hayden mulls it over, then opens the door.
HAYDEN => Julie, put a pot of coffee on. She slowly gets up and moves to the kitchen, still weeping. RED Appreciate it.   Jus' what is it you want, Hayden? HAYDEN I dunno... I want my job.    I want my family. RED What'd they suspend you for? HAYDEN I answer a call in South Austin. Girl gettin' raped, that's the word. I bust in the door, this lowlife is beatin' the shit outta her with a tire iron. 'Help me, help me,' she says. I take the guy down. He bites me. I break his arm. Case closed, right? No. She was his wife and they both sue me and the department. The guy's about to kill her and she sues me 'cause now he can't pump gas. They have chump change in the bank but they got the best lawyer in town. Three months I'm goin' crazy. No pay. Then my wife leaves me and I get served divorce papers by John Reese -- a sheriff's man. You know how embarrassin' that is? What's happenin', Chief? I mean, everybody's got a fuckin' lawyer! Julie emerges from the kitchen and retakes her seat. RED You love her?    Love the kids? HAYDEN Yeah. JULIE Then why do you hit me! Hayden grips the quivering revolver tight and points it at her. Red calms the situation... 
SERGEANT => Well, I'll be damned. NEW ANGLE The front door opens and Julie emerges with her two kids. She takes a few cautious steps, then runs to the police. 16F   INT. HOUSE - NIGHT                                                16F Red sits on the coffee table, unloading Hayden's gun.       He opens the cylinder and drops the shells to the floor. A calmer Hayden exits the kitchen with Red's coffee.       Red accepts it, takes a sip. RED Hits the spot. Hayden starts to sob a bit.      Red hands over a handkerchief which Hayden accepts. HAYDEN No cuffs, huh, Chief? RED Okay.   You ready? Hayden nods, they stand. Red picks up his hat, sticks it on his head, opens the door and holds it for... Hayden, transfixed by the multitude of lights outside.      He gulps. RED We'll walk out together, okay? Hayden steps back, looks at Red, then reaches behind his back, underneath his shirt and pulls out a .22 pistol. 
HAYDEN => Was I a good deputy? The kinda man you could depend on to do what's right? RED Yeah. Hayden smiles. HAYDEN Thank you. Then he turns the GUN on himself, swallows the barrel and BLOWS his brains out. DISSOLVE TO: 16G   EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT                                 16G Hayden's dead, covered body is carried out the door.    Julie screams and sobs, still holding her crying children.
JERRY => Hey, wait up! Jerry's feet scurry through a pool of blood and past a quivering hand. It's very late, after midnight, and only a handful of people, half of whom are cleanup crews, shuffle through the offices. A light from an office at the end of the hall catches our eye. A MUFFLED  VOICE over the phone... RED I understan' your concern, Johnny. Red, behind a huge    ranchstyle desk covered with files and paper, sips coffee    with one hand, works a buffalo nickel through magician's    paces with the other and balances the phone receiver in    the crook of his neck. RED  Cons are creatures o' habit. Like old coyotes, they'll crawl back into familiar holes. Uh huh... Yeah... Sure yer' right. Listen you go back to bed and I'll call you in the A.M. with an update. I'll have the files by then. Say hullo to the Mrs.. Red sighs, puts the PHONE back in the hook and stares at it until it RINGS again. The CLANGING wind up alarm CLOCK reads 5:30 and Gladys opens her eyes and gently quiets it with a touch. She groans and rises, not happy but used to the daily ritual required of her.
the light. => The Impala creeps through the previously seen neighborhood without its lights. Butch drives while Jerry scours the block. JERRY There's a Buick. BUTCH Don't want a Buick. Want a Ford. JERRY Ford's leak oil.     A car's a car. Butch puts on the brakes and brings the car to a stop. BUTCH Then take the Buick. JERRY Soon as we cross state line I'll do just that.  I'm tired of riding around. I'll check down the block... for a Ford! Jerry gets out, slams the door, lights a cigarette and walks away. Butch waits a few seconds, quietly turns the key one notch and checks the gas ggauge. It reads almost empty. He taps it with his finger but it doesn't budge. He sighs, looks up and sees... JERRY as he checks one locked car, then feeling eyes on his back, turns, looks at Butch, grins and disappears around a corner. BUTCH discreetly exits the car himself, carefully closing the door without a sound. Gladys steps into a slip and snaps her bra while cracking eggs into a skillet. By rote she salts, stirs, and pops bread into the toaster.
JERRY => I take mine fried. Gladys gasps at Jerry's face pressed against the screen, but controls herself when he brandishes the pistol. He motions for her to open the back door. She does. He slides into the room and sits down at the table. A Ford sits in a driveway. In the far b.g. a back porch light glares. Butch ENTERS FRAME, looks at the light, turns to the Ford and starts to jimmie the lock. No luck. He rises and looks to the light. Jerry stuffs a piece of toast in his mouth, grins at Gladys and makes a motion to the counter. JERRY A lil' on the bland side.   Gimme' that ketchup. She picks up a bottle of Heinz and inches toward him. When she gets close, he grabs her and forces her onto his lap. He holds the gun to her throat and whispers in her ear. JERRY Don't got a man around here, do ya'? 29A   INT. NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE - NIGHT                                29A MR. CUMMINGS, 70, puts on his glasses and peers through the window.
body. => JERRY Feed me, sweet thing. Her shaking hands raise a forkful of eggs to his lips.    He licks them once then gobbles with gusto. Phillip enters the room and stops dead in his tracks. JERRY Well lookie here, you do got a man! Jerry smiles at Phillip while he kisses and licks Glady's neck. At once, Phillip darts across the room at Jerry, who backhands the boy with his gunhand, sending Phillip sprawling. Butch blasts through the door in an instant. With a swift kick to the head, Jerry is knocked senseless onto the floor against the cabinets. The gun slides across the floor and lands at Phillip's feet. JERRY  I'm bleedin'! You happy? Butch gives Jerry an icy stare and kneels down to eye level with Phillip. Butch looks at the gun and then at Phillip. BUTCH What's your name, boy?
PHILLIP =>  Ph...   Phillip... BUTCH Well, okay Phillip. Reach down and pick up that pistola. JERRY Give it to me. BUTCH  Shut yer' mouth.  Pick it up and bring it over here. 
MR. CUMMINGS => Standing outside the screen door, gun leveled. Before the old man can utter a syllable, Butch grabs Phillip and points the gun straight at Cummings. Jerry jumps up and grabs Gladys. BUTCH Put the gun down, old timer. You couldn't hit me anyway. Probably shoot the boy. The PHONE RINGS. BUTCH Leave it be. The twins wiping sleep from their eyes, wander into the room. NAOMI Mama?... GLADYS It's all right, honey. PHONE continues to RING. Cummings can't decide what to do with the gun he's pointing at Butch. JERRY You deaf?!!! BUTCH Set it on the ground. Cummings reluctantly obeys. JERRY We gotta' get the hell outta'here! 
GLADYS => Phillip!!!!... Butch flips Jerry the gun, tosses Phillip into the passenger seat, leaps over the hood and into the driver's seat. The CAR STARTS and SQUEALS away. Neighbors, aroused by the noise, exit their homes clad in robes, nighties and curlers.
JERRY => Ain't you folks ever heard of sleepin' in?!! Cummings races from behind the house with the SHOTGUN, levels it and FIRES a BLAST... A nearby station wagon WINDOW SHATTERS. Rising from their cover position, its owners look at Cummings with disgust.
OWNER => Nice shootin', Fred. Garnett, still in the same clothes, rests the phone receiver in his ear while he shuffles through the files before him. Red's deputy and boy friday, TOM ADLER, 40, lank, thinning hair, with a face as soft as Red's is hard, warms up Red's coffee with a jolt from the Chief's favorite plaid Thermos. RED  Yes, Johnny, I do understand that... The jabbering on the other end of the phone line continues as Red's eyes squint to read the files. INSERT - FILES The first is Jerry's, complete with a grinning mug shot in the upper right hand corner. There are several pages in the file, but Red's fingers quickly peruse the top rap sheet before turning to... INSERT - SECOND FILE It's Butch's and again Red's fingers start to move down the page then they stop and move to the photo of Butch at the top of the page. RED'S FACE A hint of recognition.    The jabbering continues... CLOSEUP - PHOTO OF BUTCH A little younger than now.    A younger con with the grim facade of a man facing hard time. 
ADLER =>  He's talkin' to ya'. PHONE VOICE Have you heard a word I've said?! Red comes to... RED  Yeah, Johnny. Jus' thinkin' is all.... ADLER  Press has been waiting almost an hour, Red. Red nods then notices someone at the door and motions her in... SALLY GERBER, 28, cute in a plain, no nonsense way, with giant curls accenting her round face in step with the latest hair fashions, enters the room, closes the door behind her. She's nervous as hell but trying to hide it. Red motions her to have a seat while he finishes his call. RED  Yeah.... Clear as a bell... Mi' sabe. Red hangs up the phone, takes a draw on the coffee mug and looks again at the file. He seems lost in time. ADLER What'd he say? RED  Who? 
RED => Adler...    what is this? Adler searches the messy desk for something. ADLER Rings a bell, Red. Believ' they sent us something about her this mornin'... RED Who sent?... ADLER ... Guvner', Red. Adler finds the telex message sheet he's looking for and hands it to Red. 
SALLY => It's a relatively new procedure but I was assigned by Governor Connally... RED  ... 'to work with State law enforcement officials in all affairs where penal matters coincide with those of the State Police.' It don't say nuthin' about... SALLY ... It includes parole and work release programs as well as penal escape situations. The office PHONE BUZZES.    Adler picks it up. ADLER  On our way, Marge.
ADLER => Gettin' antsy, Red. You scheduled it. Adler hangs up, grabs Red's tie and coat from a brass rung on the wall and hands them over. Red puts down the telex, stares at Sally and reluctantly attempts to make himself presentable. SALLY The idea is that an understanding of the particular behavioral case histories should, in parole situations, help the subject to avoid habitual traps and, in penal escape situations could, conversely, identify those self-same traps as an aide to apprehension. 
REPORTER #3 => Red, how do you plan to apprehend the escapees? RED Officially I can only say we have a full manhunt team on their trail and we'll proceed with due haste. REPORTER #3 And unofficially? Red hesitates a moment, something's bothering him, then blurts out... RED Unoffically? I'm gonna' hunt 'em like the rabid dogs they are. 
RED => Look, fellas, I got work to do. And he heads out the door, followed by Sally's eyes and every reporter's in the room, who commence once again to yell out questions and mob after the Chief. Every reporter, that is, except one. He's near the back of the room and he smiles and raises his hand. Sally, unsure what to do, looks to him... SALLY You have a question?
REPORTER => Yes I do. Sally smiles a bit then puts on her serious face awaiting... REPORTER You doin' anything tonight? Sally, steamed, glares at the guy and stomps out of the room. REPORTER I'm serious! Butch is driving with Phillip in the front seat beside him, still in his underwear. Jerry, in the backseat, leers at Butch, aims out the window and FIRES ONCE.
BUTCH => We got a handful of caps and yer' shootin' water tanks. He's a smart guy, huh, Phillip? Phillip doesn't move or change expression. Jerry smiles, almost to himself, and FIRES TWICE more for the hell of it. The ROOF of the Impala EXPLODES with two holes as the car speeds off down the highway.
ADLER => All right, that's it, boys.   Chief's got work to do. Red and Adler move through the parking lot to SAUNDERS, 50, an aide to the Governor. Saunder's seconds are a PHOTOGRAPHER, young and energetic, and SUTTLE, 35, dark-haired, with a cowlick. Saunders shakes Red's hand and they turn to gaze upon... '60-STYLE AIRSTREAM MOBILE HOME parked in the middle of the lot hitched to the back of a new Chevy truck. The Airstream is painted in state colors and sports banners, decals and logos.
SAUNDERS => So whattaya' think? Saunders motions for the Photographer to come closer and take pictures. He moves in next to Red and poses as the camera clicks. SAUNDERS We are very proud of this baby. Governor Connally special ordered it so state officials and dignitaries can ride in the parade in Dallas. You know President Kennedy's comin'? 
SAUNDERS => What's more, as soon as it gets back from Dallas it will be at your requisitioned disposal. Perfect for lots of situations -- a headquarters on wheels. Red smiles, walks up to one of the Lone Star decals and rips it off. RED We'll take it. SAUNDERS Uh, Chief?.... Red rips off another decal. Adler and a few others start to load equipment, guns and files into the motor home. In addition they cart out unecessary items: mattresses, etc. and stack them in a pile outside the motor home. The Photographer continues to snap photos.
SAUNDERS =>  Whattaya' doin', Red?!  Stop takin' pictures! Red does away with the parade banner.   Saunders follows behind and tries to reinstate the decal. SAUNDERS It's jus' not possible, Red. The Governor's gonna' ride it in a campaign parade tomorrow. RED Guvner' hisself told me this manhunt was top priority. 
in anger. => The Airstream stops. LAUGHTER from inside and a   few AD LIBS, i.e. -- "Okay, Okay." More LAUGHTER. Red steps    out the door, turns his gaze back inside and the laughter and  comments stop on a dime. Smiling slightly he turns to Sally,   moves straight for the file box, picks it up and walks back to  the Airstream. When he arrives at the steps he turns, looks to  Sally, who stews and holds her ground. RED You comin' or not? She hesitates only a moment before walking straight to Red, grabbing back her file box and entering in front of him.
BUTCH => And that's a threat. Beginnin' to understand the difference? Somethin' catches Butch's eye and he turns and slows down and turns into... The Impala brakes to a dusty stop near the front of the store, which is bordered by a giant hay field. BUTCH Okay, Phillip, listen up. I'm gonna' run in here and get some smokes. JERRY Get beer.
BUTCH => Here, hold it like this.... And point it right between his eyes. JERRY What the hell?... BUTCH  If he so much as moves you pull the trigger ... right here... Put your finger on it. Jerry snickers and then laughs maniacally. Butch reaches over and cocks the pistol. Jerry's guffaws stop on a dime. JERRY Yer' a fuckin' crazy man. 
over it. => JERRY Those are cute little underwears you got there, boy. Say does your mama sew yer' name in 'em, initials or anything? Jerry's hand slowly reaches down to the white briefs. He places one finger in the front elastic waistband and slowly pulls it open. JERRY Whatcha' got in there? Jerry sneaks a peek. JERRY Kinda' puny, ain't it? Phillip, diverted, looks down.    In a flash Jerry grabs the gun. JERRY The hand is quicker than the eye. Jerry flicks open the revolver, spins it -- empty slots. JERRY  That sonofabitch. Hell's bells, no shells. The Old Man puts down his broom and ambles to the register. OLD MAN This be all for ya'? BUTCH This and a carton of Chesterfields.  Are those .38 shells? Gimme a box. The Old Man puts the cigs and shells on the counter and starts to tally the bill on a notepad. 
JERRY => no longer stumbling, now grinning maniacally, gives chase, whistling as if calling for a lost puppy. JERRY I'm gonna' find you boy.    You best come here. PHILLIP gun in hand, stumbles, falls, gets up, keeps running. He falls again and crawls to a stop. He wipes his tears and balls up on the ground trying to make himself invisible.
the field. => HIS POV The hay rustles as Jerry moves through the field. Jerry, crouching, moves through the field -- eyes peeled for any sign of Phillip. Phillip lies still. He hears the hay rustling near him and he looks up, squares his body and points the revolver at...
JERRY => a little frustrated now, but still moving forward. JERRY  Hey boy. Hey boy. You better hope I don't find ya'. He spots something -- a dash of color -- and begins to crawl faster. He parts a thick batch of hay and looks up into the gun barrel and eyes of ... BUTCH
Jerry laughs. => JERRY Whatcha' gonna' do? Hit me with it? Butch reaches into the coat pocket with his free hand and shows a shell or two. Jerry's grin drops. JERRY  Me'n you are friends!!!! BUTCH Thick as theives. PHILLIP hears a GUNSHOT and runs for his life back toward the store.
BUTCH =>  You got a phone? OLD MAN Naw.
BUTCH => Then go inside and lie down til' we're gone. The Old Man meekly does so. Butch goes to the car door, opens it and motions to a frozen stiff Phillip. BUTCH Well... Get in. The truck and Airstream barrel down the highway. The place is a functioning mobile headquarters now. Adler on the short wave and tacking up a map, Bobby Lee still in his corner, Red and Sally sitting across from one another at the "kitchen table".
ADLER => Got a spot on 'em. A store right outside of Benhur. About 20 miles from here. Adler sets down the mike, sticks a tack on the map and stands back. RED All right. Push the roadblock on 288 north by 50 miles. Kaiser calls in the instructions. (NOTE:   Kaiser's radio transmissions are not scripted but go on a lot of the time we're in the Airstream. In addition, his  and Adler's direc- tions and missives to Bradley in the truck are not all scripted.) 
RED => Somethin' eatin' at you? SALLY It's... perhaps premature, but do you have an auxiliary roadblock plan for when they split up? Everyone stares.    No one ever questions Red. ADLER What makes you so sure they won't stay together? Sally hesitates.    Red notices... RED You got somethin' to say, spit it out. SALLY Their situation is one of accommodation. They won't be together long. Silence.   Sally continues. SALLY Haynes and Pugh are opposites. Haynes is a criminal's criminal -- armed robbery, mano y mano confrontation. Pugh, on the other hand, has a rap sheet littered with molestation and petty crime. They'll split sheets soon. ADLER  What about the hostages? They gonna' flip a coin to see who gets to keep who? Red rises and walks to the sink.      He rinses a spoon. 
RED => If there's a SNAFU, who's John Q. Public more likely to give a rat's ass about -- an innocent boy or a goddam bureaucrat. Red wipes the water off the spoon on his shirt and walks to his office in the back. Adler, Bobby Lee and Kaiser chuckle lightly at their boss's snubbing of the female upstart in their midst. Sally's face glows a bright red. Red sits in his office chair, pulls out the spoon and pours Geritol from a bottle into his coffee. He doesn't even look up when Sally enters, a stern look on her face. SALLY We need to talk, Chief Garnett. RED Call me Red. SALLY Red.  Why are you so hell-bent on embarassing me? RED I'm hell-bent on one thing. You hang around long enough you'll find that out. Til' then a tough backside and a sense of humor will get you through a lot. SALLY I have a fine sense of humor, but the one thing I won't do is be your straight man so you can play hero to a bunch of morons who think you're some kind of hillbilly Sherlock Holmes. 
LOCAL SHERIFF => Yessir, with only the boy as hostage. But not five minutes ago we found something else. PAN FROM a fingertip UP an arm and TO the face of Jerry Pugh. A clean bullethole has left him with a third eye, a bloody back and an entourage of late summer flies. We hear the CLICK of a photographer's CAMERA. BOOM UP TO Red, Local Sheriff and other bystanders. RED Least now we know who's in charge. Butch notices that Phillip is pretty somber as he tugs on another RC.
BUTCH => Whattaya' thinkin' about? PHILLIP Nuthin'. BUTCH If I guess you tell me? Phillip nods. BUTCH You thinkin' about yer mama? Phillip sits still.    That was it. Butch brings the car to a stop.    He points to the horizon. Desolate. 
BUTCH => Out there... that's the future. Butch taps on the rearview mirror. BUTCH Back there... that's the past. If life's moving too slow and you wanna' project yerself into the future you step here on the gas. See? He does so and the Impala surges forward. BUTCH And if yer' enjoyin' the moment yer' in, well hell, just step on the brake here and you can slow it down. 
BUTCH => Ok, Phillip, we're gonna do some  car shoppin'. You ever play cowboys   n' Injuns? See that Ford sedan? Now I want   you to sneak on over there like an Injun  and take a peek and see if the keys is in  it. Phillip hesitates. BUTCH Don't have to if you don't wanna... but I'd appreciate it... You bein' the new navigator and all. Phillip thinks it over then opens the door and slips out.
BUTCH => Hey, Phillip, check for a radio, too. Phillip, still in his skivvies, legs cut up and muddied from his escape from Jerry, sneaks up to the car and quietly peers into the open window. The keys dangle when his small hand touches them. Phillip closes the door, looks around and then runs pell-mell to the passenger window of the Impala. PHILLIP It's got keys and a radio.   I checked. BUTCH Good man.
PHILLIP => Can we stop at a fillin' station. BUTCH What for? PHILLIP Number one. BUTCH This here's nature, Phillip.   Pee in the ditch. Phillip scrambles to the ditch to relieve himself while Butch steps out of the Impala, tosses the keys into the field and walks toward the Ford. 
BUTCH => Start, you sonofabitch! The Farmer runs faster, comes closer... FARMER Hey, that's my car! Hey!!! Butch floors the gas to clear the flood and the ENGINE finally STARTS. He throws it into reverse and peels out backwards into the road beside the ditch where Phillip continues to relieve himself. BUTCH Get in the car, Phillip! The Farmer, only 30 yards or so away, is racing toward them madder than a wet hen. Phillip tries to hurry but the RC continues to run through him.
BUTCH => Phillip!   Get in the car! Phillip pulls his underwear up and races to the car. He leaps into the open passenger door at the same moment Butch steps on the gas and the Farmer arrives and grabs onto the door as it closes. The CAR is SCREECHING down the road but the Farmer holds on for dear life and auto. He claws at Phillip, who does his best to fend off flailing hands and fingers. Butch reaches under the seat for and grasps the pistol. Phillip sees what's about to happen and bites the Farmer's hand as hard as he can. 
BUTCH => One thing's for sure. You got one helluva set of chompers. Sitting still. Bradley tries to light a cigarette with the lighter but gets no heat. BRADLEY  Lighter don't work. Put that on the list. Bobby Lee sits alone in the back corner of the main room of the RV. He just sits and stares, occasionally smiling cynically at Sally.
listen in. => ADLER  Highway 16 north. Four miles south of Desdemona. Got it.  Stole a vehicle. Kaiser radios up front, the ENGINE STARTS and the Airstream moves. RED  What kinda' shape's it in? 
ADLER => Looks like you was right, Red. He's off the farm to market and onto a spur. Whattaya' wanna' do? RED Beef up the I-20 roadblock. Adler gets more news through the headsets. ADLER What's that?  Red, the locals wanna' know if they're to take a clean shot if they get one? Red stares out the window for what seems like an eternity...
RED => No. Adler looks quizzically at Red and pulls off the headphones... RADIO VOICE Come back...? Come back Mobile One. Adler, are you there...? RED Tell 'em what I said. ADLER  Uh... no. RADIO VOICE Was that a negative? 
SALLY => It's the only thing to do.    He's got the child with him. Red gives her a look that says, "Don't defend me". BOBBY LEE  I suppose you figger' he'll jus' give up. SALLY Maybe, maybe not. BOBBY LEE Well now there's a safe bet. SALLY I'll give you a safe bet. The boy's in better hands now than he was. RED The third eye Pugh's sportin' on the way to the morgue shouts otherwise. Sally flashes Red a look back. Bobby Lee rises and moves past Red on his way to the toilet. BOBBY LEE  Then why not shoot to kill. Red just stares at Bobby Lee as the younger man moves slowly past him to the toilet. Adler on the radio... 
BOY => What can I do ya' for? BUTCH  Tell him your name. PHILLIP Phillip. BOY Fill-er-up it is. The attendant starts to pump the gas.
BUTCH => See there! All you gotta' do is say your name and people are waiting on you hand and foot. Like a goddam king or somethin'. Phillip can't help but smile at the notion. Bradley and Suttle lean against the parked RV, chatting. BRADLEY You responsible for engine maintenance on this thing? SUTTLE Uh, yeah.     I'm the full time driver. 
the field. => ADLER No bodies this time, thank Gawd. RED You got the keys to this thing? ADLER Uh... naw... RED Get me a crowbar.  You might wanna' wait in the boat.
SALLY => No thank you. 76A   INT. TRUNK - DAY                                               76A But it's black as night. A   CROWBAR CRANKS at the lock until the trunk blasts open like a  bottletop. A blast of light gives way to the silhouetted  faces of Red, Adler and Sally, who turns and walks away in  nauseous disgust. RED Well.... THEIR POV - OPEN TRUNK In it lies the crumpled, bent, bloody remains of Larry, the prison employee, the original hostage. RED ... there's our bureaucrat.
BUTCH => You ready to get out of those skivvies and into some britches? Phillip nods. BUTCH Well all right then. But first we gotta' come up with some A.K.A.'s, fake identities, ya' know. Names to call each other when we're around other folks.  Go ahead and think one up. Whatever name you want.
PHILLIP => Any name I want? A small time Dry Goods store with a sign over the entrance proclaiming: "FRIENDLY'S - The Friendliest Store in Texas!" A small, well-organized country dry goods store with a dozen or so aisles carrying everything from DDT to used boots. 
CHILDREN'S AISLE => Lucy is holding jeans up to Phillip's waist. LUCY It'd be easier if I knew your size, but we'll get it right. Phillip's eye catches something... 
PHILLIP => wearing the Casper mask. LUCY Why look.     It's a friendly ghost.   Say 'Boo.' PHILLIP  Boo. LUCY Not    very scary but you'll have a whole year    to work on it if your Daddy lets you    have it. Good price, too. What'd you    go as this year? PHILLIP A bandit.
BUTCH => You folks are about the grinninest bunch I ever seen. Paula laughs, then drops her grin, looks behind her to see Mr. Willits is watching, and whispers... PAULA Old Man Willits holds a contest ever' month. The friendliest clerk gets a $20 bonus.  There's a ballot box at the front. BEHIND GLASS Mr. Willits adjusts his black and white TV and settles on a local news broadcast. NEWSCASTER  ... the hunt continues for Butch Haynes, who escaped last night from the maximum security unit over in Huntsville. Haynes, six-one, 185 pounds, with brown hair is considered armed and dangerous. He was last seen... CHECKOUT COUNTER Paula checks Butch's items as Lucy and Phillip emerge from an aisle and drop a pair of jeans and sneakers onto the counter. LUCY Here's the clothes, but Buzz has his heart set on a Halloween costume for next year. It is half off. 
TERRANCE =>  Okay, Pete, I'm all set down here.    You? ANOTHER COP PETE, 40, probably Terrance's uncle, slides his black and white to the opposite end of the street and puts it in park. PETE  Copasetic. Let's just keep him tied up til' the state boys get here.
group... => ADLER They've got him penned down in Noodle, north of Abilene. Paula bags the items, including the jeans. CLOSEUP - WILLITS staring straight at Butch. CLOSEUP - BUTCH shakes his head at Willits -- "Don't even think about it". 
toward him. => 
PAULA => Look, he left his little boy. LUCY And look, the little rascal has... he's no better than... PAULA What?!... LUCY He's got that Casper costume.   He stole it! The FORD emerges from the side alley once more and SQUEALS onto Main Street. 
BUTCH => Up to you, Buzz... PHILLIP He's frozen for a second, his knees knocking, teeth chattering, the works. Lucy appears behind him and the glass door... LUCY  You'll never get away with this, little mister! Phillip dashes to the Ford and makes a swimmer's starting dive into the open passenger window. 
FRANK => Hurry up.   Someone's comin'. ON HORIZON Sure enough, a hail of dust signals the approach of a vehicle a mile or so away. Billy crawls into the ditch next to Frank. We see what he's dragged from the field -- a scarecrow with a floppy hat and red bandana. FRANK Stick it in the road. Hurry up. Billy does so, propping the scarecrow into a sitting position with a forked stick. Then he races back to the ditch and slides in next to Frank to divide the eggs. 
BUTCH => Here, take them nasty skivvies off and put on yer' jeans. He spots Phillip's not so successful effort to hide the costume box. BUTCH Whatya' got there?
PHILLIP => A ghost suit. BUTCH From the store?   You kyped it? Phillip nods, expecting the worst. BUTCH Well, hell, Phillip, put it on. PHILLIP You ain't mad? BUTCH Let's unnerstan' each other here.  
BUTCH => What? You don't wanna' get undressed, is that it? Phillip shrugs. BUTCH You embarrassed caus' I might see yer' pecker? PHILLIP It's... puny. BUTCH What? PHILLIP It's puny.
BUTCH => Well hell, lemme' see. Phillip still hesitates. BUTCH Go on.   I'll shoot ya' straight. Phillip gingerly pulls off his underwear. Butch smiles a broad grin. BUTCH Hell no, Phillip, it's good size for a boy yer' age! Phillip, remasculated, smiles and starts to put on the costume. BUTCH Here they come.
ANOTHER ANGLE => Bobby Lee who sits by himself, whittling away at a stick and leering at her. Adler is at the map, holding the shortwave mike and wearing the earphones. Behind him, Red stares out the window. ADLER Haynes bought tape, rope, and some clothes for the boy. Red comes to and turns to Adler. Sally smiles almost to her- self. She was right -- Haynes is looking after the boy. Everyone knows it, but no one says anything. ADLER One puzzler though. They say the boy could have gotten away but didn't. SALLY Probably scared to death. ADLER That's not all. The kid stole a Halloween outfit.
RED => Holy Jeezus, they're a team. ADLER With the pit stop in Noodle looks like he's headed for the Panhandle. Red sighs and groans. Unpleasant news but somehow he knew it. He moves to the back room for another shot of Geritol. SALLY  What? ADLER There's more roads than people in the Panhandle. 
SALLY => Okay, so... I'm Robert Haynes. Called Butch by everyone. I was born in Amarillo, but grew up in the French Quarter of New Orleans. ADLER  What's she doin', Red? SALLY I killed a man when I was eight. Silence. Nobody seems willing to play along.    Red turns from the window to Sally. RED How'd ya' kill him? SALLY Shot him with a pistol. There was always one around the dance hall. That's what they called it but it was a whorehouse. We lived there. Red moves away from the discussion and stands at the front of the Airstream, staring out the front window. ADLER What'd the authorities do? SALLY The victim was wanted by the locals so the whole thing got shoved under the carpet Cajun-style. ADLER They didn't even stick him in juvy? 
BUTCH =>  Seen one of them in a magazine. It's called a motor home. They're new. Kinda' like a house on wheels. Butch HONKS the HORN TWICE and waits for a retort. Bradley smiles, looks to Suttle, who nods an "okay."    Johnson sits on the HORN for TWO solid BLASTS. Phillip laughs and waves.
SALLY => staring out the window.    She looks at the passing Ford. HER POV Butch is hard to make out, but there's no mistaking the Casper outfit Phillip wears with pride. BACK TO SCENE SALLY You said the boy stole a Halloween costume... What character? ADLER I believe it was Casper... Casper the friendly ghost. SALLY That was them.   They just passed us. RED Turn this thing around! Adler jumps on the radio to the truck. ADLER  Turn it around! That was them! The Airstream slows to a grind, pulls off the narrow shoulder and begins to make a wide U-turn. 
SUTTLE => It's... it's not safe to go over 65 with this much load! The speedometer reaches 80.   The ENGINE SCREAMS. 111C INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY                                            111C The whole thing is shaking, twisting, bumping.    All aboard try and keep their balance. BOBBY LEE  Tell him to pull up next to 'em!
yards back. => NEW ANGLE Phillip turns around backward in the seat to watch. PHILLIP They're goin' fast! BUTCH Phillip, you get in the back seat and lie down on the floor. 
RED => Holster that firearm and get yer ass back inside! Bobby Lee thinks it over, shakes his head in disgust and holsters his piece. 111G INT. FORD - DAY                                                 111G Butch spots an opening and... BUTCH Hold on, Phillip! 111H EXT. ROAD - DAY                                                 111H
SUTTLE => Don't!!! 111J EXT. ROAD - DAY                                                 111J The truck, in an attempt to enter the field, misses the flat spot, hits a burm with its front right tire and flies into the air. 
hole. => 111Q INT. AIRSTREAM - DAY                                            111Q Adler, still wearing the headphones, rises first and goes to the radio to answer an incoming call. Red groans. Sally crawls to her feet and offers Red a helping hand, which he accepts. ADLER Uh... Red?
RED => What? ADLER They wanna know if the boy looked okay? SALLY He was laughing and waving. RED Don't tell 'em that. A large group of very serious advisors sit and stand in a circle around the Governor's desk. Across from GOVERNOR CONNALLY sits a nervous, near tears GLADYS PERRY. An AIDE on the telephone, turns to the Governor. AIDE They say the boy looked A-okay. Governor Connally nods, sighs, and reaches hand across the desk and touches Gladys's shoulder. GOVERNOR He'll be fine, Mrs. Perry. This whole nightmare will be over and done with very soon and you'll be home with your boy. I promise. Gladys, distraught, nods. Governor Connally discreetly nods to a photographer in the group while keeping his hand on Gladys's shoulder. A CAMERA'S FLASH causes everyone to blink in reaction. The Governor shakes it off and continues... 
his eyes. => Staring at the horizon. ANOTHER ANGLE Butch sits on the hood of the Ford, which is stopped on an asphalt road which, a few feet farther, turns into dirt and a few feet farther a dirt clod field. 
PHILLIP => You been there? BUTCH Naw. Just got the one postcard. But anyhoo, back to our present dilemma. You feel like a hike? PHILLIP How far? BUTCH Can't be more'n, oh, say, fifteen hundred miles. Phillip seems a tad apprehensive about the prospect. 
BUTCH => How's it look? PHILLIP A soda... some gum... half a Moon Pie. BUTCH Rations for one at best.    Come on. Butch strides straight into the rocky field. Phillip lingers a moment, then sticks the half eaten moon pie in his mouth and follows, hurrying to catch up. 117 OMITTED                                                           117 thru                                                                  thru 122                                                                   122 122A EXT. FIELD - AIRSTREAM - DAY                                     122A Suttle limps around the broken-down silver junker, his hands covering what his eyes can't bear to see. BRADLEY Now yer sure that gooseneck had a safety chain? Suttle turns and glares. SUTTLE Yes!!! NEW ANGLE Red walks slowly toward the slumping Airstream. A PHONE RINGS from inside, then STOPS. Adler sticks his head out of the door and calls to Red... 
BUZZER. => BUTCH Now wait til' they come. A FARM WIFE, 65 or so, like something from a Grant Wood, only smiling, opens the door and looks out on the pair through the screen door. BUTCH  Now, Phillip. PHILLIP Trick r' treat. WOMAN Well ain't you the cutest lil' ghost I ever did see. BUTCH  Say it again, Phillip.
PHILLIP => Trick r' treat, ma'am. WOMAN Well, seein' that Halloween was yesterday, I guess you'll have to trick me. You missed the caramel popcorn balls I made up special. Butch smiles, pulls up his shirt and exposes the revolver stuck in his pants. WOMAN  Wait right here. Butch smiles and pats Phillip on the shoulder.    His eyes are drawn to... 
Phillip smiles. => PHILLIP Thankyew. Phillip, sack in hand, waves goodbye to the frightened old Woman, who shuts her door and locks it. Butch and Phillip make their way back across the yard. BUTCH Never underestimate the kindness of the common man, Phillip. Butch reaches up and grabs the phone line, yanks it loose and tosses it aside.
ADLER =>  Spur 208 northbound. And 83 at Aspermont coming and going.  That it? RED Yeah. Adler moves to set down the mike and topples a cup of coffee. It spills on the floor. Suttle grabs a towel to wipe it up but realizing the futility of keeping the Airstream clean, he simply throws it aside.
BUTCH => You sure there's no meat in there? Spam maybe, Vienna sausages, anything like that? PHILLIP Nawsir. BUTCH Well, I bet you can make us some mustard sandwiches, can't ya'? PHILLIP Yeahsir. BUTCH Well go to it. Phillip breaks out the loaf of bread and lays out four slices on the dashboard. PHILLIP How many? BUTCH Many as you want. Phillip   lays out six more slices. The dashboard is now covered   with bread. Phillip pulls out the mustard but has no knife.    Butch pulls out a stick of gum and hands it to Phillip   to spread with. As they drive  along they pass a large, happy family (Mom, Dad, girl 5, boy 7)  picnicking in the dip of a long hill alongside the highway.   From the look of their brand-new loaded down station wagon  they are on vacation. CLOSEUP - PHILLIP Mesmerized by the family. CLOSEUP - BUTCH Ditto.    He pulls his eyes back to the road, notices something. Butch brings the car to a stop near the crest of the hill, sets the emergency brake, grabs the first completed mustard sandwich and gets out, leaving the Impala running. 
PHILLIP => spreading even more mustard. Every so often he sneaks a peek back at the picnicing family. EMERGENCY BRAKE slips a little, then gives all at once. FORD starts to roll backwards. PHILLIP Whooaaa!   Butch!    Butch!!! BUTCH
BUTCH => Step on the brake! Put your foot on the brake! The middle one!! PHILLIP panicked, slides over and grabs the wheel. Of course, he is too short to press on the brake and when he bends down... FORD swerves off the road and onto the shoulder. 
BOB'S WIFE => Forget the car, Bob! BOB Are you crazy.    It's only got a 1000 miles on it! He jumps in the Driver's seat of the WAGON and frantically REVS it just as... PHILLIP gains control of the wheel and steers the rapidly reversing Ford around the Wagon. FORD continues backwards to the bottom of the hill, but it has enough steam built up to head backwards up the other incline of the previous hill. BUTCH comes to a heaving halt next to Bob, who is near heart attack himself. BUTCH Bad brakes. BOB That was close. Bob gets out of the station wagon and stands next to Butch. They watch for the Ford for a second, see that it's losing momentum and smile at each other. 
resemble something. => As in the old Westerns, it's quiet, too quiet. The      inside of the RV is pretty much trashed now -- the product of     men working in close contact. Sally stares at a file.       The silence is broken as Red spits tobacco juice into an     empty Coke bottle. Sally peruses a file. INSERT - FILE
ADLER =>  They've got two Highway Patrol cars they can give to us now. RED Tell 'em stand by. We got the     best seat in the house right here. Have     the southern roadblocks call in the    dogs and move north. Check every road,     every farm from San Angelo to Sweetwater. 
BUTCH => This will do fine right here, Bob.   But I do have one more favor to ask. The entire Family Bob is standing along the roadside, their luggage and belongings by their side. The looks on their faces say it all -- Stranded. Butch hands over the stuffed animal to Patsy, pats Bob Jr. on the head and sticks out his hand to Bob. BUTCH Just a loaner, Bob. Not to worry.    You'll get her back. Bob reluctantly shakes Butch's hand in an attempt to impress upon Butch his most important concern of all...
BOB => Please, it's new. Hold it under 45... at least for the next 500 miles. BUTCH You know I will, Bob. Butch gives a snappy salute and is off to the wagon. Butch STARTS the CAR and he and Phillip slowly pull away. BUTCH Wave, Phillip. Phillip does so.   Bob's kids wave back.   Phillip starts to giggle. 
horizon. => The Highway Patrol continues to monitor cars one by one. One of the Officers sees something and nudges his partner to look at... FAMILY BOB cresting the hill carrying their hats in their hands along with their luggage and coolers. Adler drops his headphones and turns to Red. ADLER He got through!    At Aspermont.
BRADLEY => What? ADLER Coerced a motorist. Red sighs. RED Well goddam, shout at Amarillo. Tell 'em we got a notion he's headed their way. Adler gets right to it. 
SUTTLE => Well, uh... Adler jumps up and goes to the frig. ADLER Got T-bones in the frig, Red! SUTTLE Uh, uh, those were stocked for the Governor. I don't think that he would approve of... Adler finds a plastic bag in the freezer and inspects it. ADLER -- And look, Red!     Tater Tots!   Those kind you like! Red turns and looks.
RED => That so? Butch fiddles with the RADIO. He settles on a Spanish station playing a BALLAD and ADJUSTS the VOLUME. BUTCH Can't find a Coonass Waltz to save my ass.  Hey, Phillip, that stuff you told me 'bout not trick r' treatin' causa' Jehovah... Was you pullin' my leg? PHILLIP Nawsir. 
PHILLIP => Nawsir. BUTCH Not even one? PHILLIP Not even one. BUTCH Cotton candy? PHILLIP Seen that once.     It's red. BUTCH Pink. PHILLIP Never ate none though.
BUTCH => Roller coasters? BUTCH Seen pictures. BUTCH You know, Phillip, you have a goddammed red, white and blue American right to eat cotton candy and ride roller coasters. PHILLIP I do?
booth. => Butch digs in but Phillip holds for a beat. Butch notices and stops chewing while Phillip says "grace". PHILLIP  Thankyew, Father, for yer' 'boundiful' nature and goodness. Butch and the Waitress/cook share a smile. BUTCH Amen.  Now dig in, Buzz.  Call him that caus' he eats like a buzzard. If it's dead he'll swoop and chow. 
chews. => Phillip, mouth full, takes note of the confusing spectacle. Eileen turns to walk away. EILEEN If you need me, I'll be right over here. She slowly sashays away to behind the counter. Butch watches her every step. Phillip chews and watches Butch's eyes. Butch turns his head and catches Phillip watching him. BUTCH Eat yer' food.
BOBBY LEE => Think yer' pretty smart now don'tcha'? She doesn't back down, instead looking him straight in the eye. SALLY Excuse me? BOBBY LEE Well yer' not smart but you are pretty. Sally stares right at Bobby Lee then moves for the door.    He shifts his position and blocks her. SALLY Excuse me. Bobby Lee smiles a crooked-tooth grin, refusing to move. BOBBY LEE Work and pleasure should naturally go together don't you think? Take me, I enjoy my work. SALLY I could give a shit. BOBBY LEE You got a mouth, don't ya? RED How you take your steak, Sally? Bobby Lee and Sally both look up to see Red standing in the doorway. 
EILEEN => Very polite. BUTCH I try hard but, ya' know, since his mama died... PHILLIP -- My mama's not dead! Butch, a tad annoyed, turns to Phillip and gives him a look. Once again, when he turns back, Eileen has moved. She's flirting with Butch, moving, bending, wiping her hands on her hips. His eyes are focused on her every squirm. BUTCH  Okay now, Buzz, you go on out in the parking lot and chunk some rocks or something. BACK TO SCENE Phillip reluctantly slides down off the stool and slowly walks out the door. His eyes stay on Butch and Eileen, barely concealing confusion mixed with a hint of jealousy. EILEEN So is she dead or not? BUTCH  Well his biological mother is alive. Gave him up for adoption to me and my wife. My dead wife, that is. She is, was Phil, er Buzz's stepmother, so she's his mom, was his mom, stepmom, but... she's dead. 
EILEEN =>  I keep a cot in the back. But Butch, still at the window, just keeps breathing. LATER) Nothing but stars swimming in black West Texas crude. PHILLIP stands right next to the SPUTTERING NEON SIGN, staring straight up, the neon light splashing his face in a grotesque pink light. 
PHILLIP => No.  You kissed her backside, huh? BUTCH It's, well, uh, it's kinda' hard to explain. I know how it musta' looked.  Hell, I don't know how it looked.... As Butch's voice trails off silence overtakes the car. After a few seconds Butch seems happy not to have to answer any more questions. Phillip fidgits with the door handle. Several more seconds pass, then... 
BUTCH => You wanna' drive? PHILLIP Yeah! BUTCH Jus' kiddin', Buzz. I'm just gonna' stop here for awhile and catch 40.
BUTCH => Things go our way we'll be in Alaska in four or five days. Get the jump on winter. Phillip looks a little sad. BUTCH What's wrong? PHILLIP I wanna' go home. BUTCH If you wanted to go home so bad, why didn't you stay at that store today? 
PHILLIP => Butch? BUTCH Yeah, Phillip? PHILLIP I can drive. BUTCH Done proved that ain'tcha'? There's lots and lots of stuff you can do, Phillip.  Reach in that glovebox there. See if Bob's got a notepad or something. Phillip extracts a small ringed memo pad. BUTCH Good old Bob. Can you write?
PHILLIP => I can print. BUTCH Good enough. Now I want you to make a list of everything you ever wanted to do but wasn't allowed to. Okay? PHILLIP Like what? BUTCH Like... cotton candy. PHILLIP Cotton candy? 
PHILLIP => How ya' spell 'rocketship?'
RED => Figger to give 'em another hour of shuteye, then grab the patrol cars and head for the Panhandle. SALLY Bring back any memories? RED Too many. Red turns to her.    They both know he's divulged something. RED They got a file on me, too? 
RED => Yeah, well, that's definitely the worst of it. Red uncorks his thermos and refills Sally's mug.    She takes a sip and almost chokes on it. SALLY Strong... but good. So Cecil... Red gives her a strong look. SALLY Red. What do you do when you're not at work. RED The file don't tell ya' that, too? SALLY Nope.
RED => I got a ranch I never visit, nieces I hardly know, a tackle box full of dry lures and a dog that figures he's the owner and I'm the pet.  Could have a point, he's there more. SALLY A confirmed bachelor. Any regrets? RED Liked to have wet those lures. Maybe a new dog.  How'd you get into... whatever the hell it is you do? 
RED => What's yer' husband think about all this? SALLY Don't own one. RED Yer' not careful you'll wind up jus' like me. Old, tired, with nobody around to love ya'. SALLY Maybe. RED It's crazy ain't it? SALLY What's that?
RED => Goin' without sleep chasin' after a three time loser and Casper the Friendly Ghost? SALLY Sleep?    That's what retirement's for. RED Bite your tongue. SALLY You wanna' know what's really crazy? Hayne's juvenile court record lists you as Amicus Curiae. Silence save the CRICKETS. 
RED => I bought the judge a T-bone and told him to send the boy up. Told him it was the right thing to do. He went along right down the line. Red disappears. Sally just stares after him, her face once again soft. resting on Phillip's lap. BACK TO SCENE His fingers release it as he drifts to sleep. CLOSEUP - PHILLIP
drunken mother. => 
wagon. => 
MACK => Well, ain't no sense in ya'll sleepin' in the car. Not when I got a fold out couch sittin' empty. BUTCH Wouldn't want to put you out.     'Sides we need to get back on the road. MACK No trouble t'all. Wake you up first light, fill yer' belly and send you on yer' way. A Highway Patrol car, followed by a tow truck, breeze along the highway. 164   OMITTED                                                        164
SAUNDERS => We didn't pass it did we? Saunders spots the RV on the horizon. MONTGOMERY There it is.
MONTGOMERY => Good Gawd Almighty. Governor ain't gonna' like this. Suttle is asleep among the rubble. He jumps to when Saunders bursts in. Saunders gasps when he sees the shape his prize vehicle is in. SAUNDERS Where are they?! SUTTLE Uh, uh, they're gone. SAUNDERS How long?! SUTTLE I don't know, uh, four, five hours. Saunders, dejected, starts to move some of the trash from the couch. He sits down and moans... SAUNDERS Well, goddammit, did he say anything? SUTTLE Yeah. 
bounces. => Two Highway Patrol cars rocket along, one behind the other. OFFICER JONES, a lean, hard-nose of 25, drives. Adler in the front seat, Red and Sally in the back. Not a word is spoken. Serious business. ANOTHER OFFICER drives this car. Kaiser rides shotgun working the radio. In the back seat sit Bobby Lee and Bradley. A COFFEEPOT RATTLES on the stove. Two black hands move the pot and rescue overfried eggs in a skillet on the stove. Two small black   feet dangle from a too-high bathroom toilet. As they    hit the ground we hear a FLUSH. We FOLLOW the feet   DOWN down a short hall and into the living room. As    they pass the bottom of a fold-out couch we... BOOM UP to reveal Butch and Phillip asleep. Butch's arm has found its way under Phillip's head and is acting as an early morning pillow. 
CLEVE => Name's Cleve.   I'm six. PHILLIP I'm eight.   Mine's Buzz. Butch, Cleve and Phillip finish breakfast while Lottie pours coffee. Cleve and Phillip, hitting it off well, are engaged in fervent storytelling. CLEVE We got us a creek down the way. Wanna go later? 
LOTTIE => Mr. Andrews give 'em to us when he got hisself a newfangled one. Butch finds a particular favorite. BUTCH Jeezus. Now this is music. You know how long it's been since I heard this. LOTTIE That's an oldie all right. Mrs. Andrews' maiden name was Bougeois -- half-Creole herself she is, but Mr. Andrews he don't like nobody to know. 'Suppose that's why he give 'em to us. Mack drops his pants and sits on the throne. He reaches over and turns ON the RADIO resting on the wash basin. A FARM REPORT comes on just as... A NEEDLE DROPS on a 78, filling the room with the SCRATCHY sounds of a Coonass waltz. Butch's eyes come to life. BUTCH You dance, Lottie? LOTTIE Lawd goodness no. 
BUTCH => Oughta be able to. Was raised in a dime a dance whorehouse. LOTTIE Yer' foolin' me? BUTCH No, ma'am. My mama would dance their asses out of the fryin' pan and into the back room fire. Butch spots Phillip and Cleve, watching, giggling. BUTCH Get on yer' feet, Buzz.     You'n Cleve shake a leg. LOTTIE  Well go on!
another. => BUTCH Dance, boys! The little boys do their best to emulate the adults and soon they're laughing and dancing, too. The RECORD STOPS. They all clap and laugh.         Butch hears something... The RADIO in the bathroom. Mack sits, cleaning his fingernails with a Barlow knife as the radio announcer begins a news flash. 
BUTCH => Now, son, you wanna' flip? Cleve shakes his head "no" between sobs. Butch gently takes the boy and lifts him to a standing position. BUTCH Go ahead. Put yer' hands between yer' legs. I won't hurt ya'. Cleve turns to Mack and then runs to him. Butch walks calmly over and pulls the crying child away from the old man and back to the center of the room. 
BUTCH => Buzz.    Go out to the car and get that rope. Phillip stands frozen. BUTCH Phillip!... Phillip slowly rises and walks away.      He stops for a moment and turns his back. EXTREME CLOSEUP - PHILLIP His eyes lock in a gaze with... EXTREME CLOSEUP - CLEVE His sobbing eyes plead for something, anything.
Cleve. => BUTCH  Now you hold that boy and tell him you love him. Mack grabs Cleve and sets him in his lap. 
LOTTIE => Please, mistah'. I gotta' sense about you. I know you a good man. BUTCH Nome', I ain't a good man. Ain't the worst neither, jus' a different breed. Phillip is at the screen door looking in.     He holds the bag in his hand. HIS POV Butch sits on the coffee table, which is pushed right up to Mack, Lottie and Cleve, who sit on chairs.
BUTCH => Shut yer' eyes, Cleve. Mack, you and Lottie hold the boy tight. Shut yer' eyes, too. Phillip, awkwardly aware that he's going to witness an execution, starts to cry out, then squelches himself. Butch seems to be in another world now -- taken to another place and time. A slight smile finds its way to his face, then disappears. LOTTIE Please, mistah', ain't no use in it. MACK We'll give you ever'thing we got! But Butch doesn't even hear the words. He slowly opens his eyes, pulls his chin from the pistol barrel and points it at Mack. LOTTIE Our Father, which are in heaven, Hallo be thy name... BUTCH  Shhh... shhh... shhh... LOTTIE ... Thy Kingdom come, Lawd, thy will be done... here on Earth as it is in Heaven. 
BUTCH =>  Phillip?!... No answer. He drags himself to the station wagon and, with much effort, slides himself into the seat. No keys. He opens the door, crawls out, leaving a trail of blood, looks out to the road and starts to walk. PHILLIP runs down the road, looking back every so often to see if Butch is following 
ARCH => Mack?... Lottie?... Arch enters the living room and stops when he sees Mack and family, still gagged and tied to the chairs. Butch, holding his side, the pain is worse as he stumbles along. He stops when he spots something -- a piece of white costume on the fence. He crosses the ditch, steps through the fence and walks in the same direction Phillip did. BUTCH That was a helluva' thing to do, Phillip. You're a hero. Prolly' be in all the papers tomorrow, how you saved those folks. Truth is, I don't think I woulda' killed 'em. I only killed two people in my whole life. One hurt my mama and one hurt you. Adler listens in on the shortwave. KAISER A town called Happy, over in Swisher County. RED  How far? JONES Half-hour tops. RED  Get on the radio and tell whoever gets there first to play it nice and easy. Sally gives him a look. KAISER They've got the boy's mother flyin' in on a private. You want her on standby? 
BUTCH => What say we talk this over? Settle things man to man. Then we can be on our way. I'll even let you drive. Knock that right off yer' list. How'd that be? PHILLIP finally arrives at the creek, looking over   his shoulder all the way. He looks at the water -- deep and    running swift. Where to go? He decides and heads for the    nearest tree -- a big oak, and shimmies up to a branch ten   feet or so above the ground.
ARCH => That's his car. Took off on foot. He's got a pistol. Mack says it looks like a .38. Butch stops to rest.   Something catches his eye. HIS POV
BUTCH =>  'Dear Robert'... that's my real name, Phillip. Robert. Jus' like old Bob the family man. 'Dear Robert, I just wanted to tell you that me leaving has nothing to do with you.' Phillip, still afraid, can't help but listen as Butch suffers through his memories. BUTCH  'Alaska is a beautiful place.    Colder than hell most all the time. 
PHILLIP => You better run. BUTCH Naw, Phillip, I need me a time machine with a loud radio to take me where I'm goin'. Walkin's for squares. Red exits his patrol car, followed by Sally.     Agent Hendricks walks up. HENDRICKS Garnett, I'm Tom Hendricks, F.B.I., out of the Amarillo office. I understand you have one of our men with you? 
ADLER => Ya' think he means it? Red mulls it over, replaces his old chaw with a fresh one and looks to Sally. RED What do you think? SALLY Based on what's happened the past two days I don't think he would. RED One thing's for sure. If he gets outta' here with the boy, we're right back to where we started. BRADLEY If he kills the boy he'll get the chair. ADLER Shit, he'll get the chair anyway.   He's killed two in two days. SALLY We don't know that he pulled the trigger on either of the innocent victims. ADLER Well he wasn't at home in his Strat-O- Lounger. 'Sides, who killed Pugh? Casper? RED All right, both of you, that's enough! From the trail of blood I got a feelin' it ain't gonna' make any difference. Let's jus' concentrate on gettin' the boy out for now. Bobby Lee approaches with a leather case, bypasses Red and goes straight to Hendricks. BOBBY LEE Where ya' want me, sir? RED Can you shoot off a hood? Bobby Lee nods. In the b.g., a HELICOPTER circles, preparing to land. 
BUTCH => Now that ya' got yerself a ghost suit, do ya' think she'll let ya' trick r' treat? PHILLIP  I got to do one house. Butch smiles.   He has an idea. BUTCH Put yer' mask back on. Bobby Lee carefully unsnaps the latches on his leather case and opens it on the hood of the patrol car. 
RED => Jus' push the button and talk normal. It SQUAWKS again. RED Here, I'll hold the damn thing. You jus' talk. GLADYS  Hullo... Hullo. Please, sir, he's my only son. I'll give you money, whatever I can. Please, I want to take my boy home! I want to... The MEGAPHONE SQUALKS one final dying time and SHORTS OUT. Red hands it to Bradley, who immediately sets it on the trunk and starts taking it apart. RED  Yer' doin' fine. We'll get another one. BRADLEY I think yer' tobacco spit shorted it out, Red. Phillip wears the mask.   Butch dusts him off and smiles. BUTCH You ready to go home? 
RED => Well, find another one! Red sighs and cups his hands around his mouth. RED  What?! BUTCH  Candy! Halloween candy! Popcorn balls, caramel apples, gum, shit like that?! RED  You hungry? BUTCH  You find me some candy and I'll deliver up a ghost. RED  You heard him. Red nods to Adler who starts to gather sticks of gum, mints, anything from the surrounding officers. BRADLEY Don't have another megaphone, Chief. Red just shakes his head and sighs. Bobby Lee leans on the hood of the car and places one eye behind the scope of his rifle. 
GLADYS =>  Phillip knows those things are against our beliefs. RED  What kinda' foolishness is that?  She promises! BUTCH  Make her say it!
GLADYS =>  I promise! BUTCH  Can we trust her? PHILLIP She's a real good mama. Butch reaches into his pocket, extracts the remaining wad of stolen bills, unzips the Casper outfit, stuffs them into the costume and rezips. BUTCH  When you get home, hide this. If she's lyin' you can buy yer' own damn beer. Phillip quiets for a moment and stares at Butch. PHILLIP Yer' not bad, are you, Butch? BUTCH Yeah.  Now, Buzz, listen here. I want ya' to step out there real slow, keepin' yer' paws in the air. Then strut right over to them cops and yell 'trick r' treat.' Got it? 
Red watches. => RED  Come on. Keep walkin'! HIS POV - THROUGH BINOCS Phillip stops walking and stands perfectly still. 
BUTCH => Personally I think we negotiated a pretty fair deal, but if there's somethin' else you want... PHILLIP  Do they want to shoot you? Butch starts to lie to the boy but can't. A finger strokes the trigger of a high-powered rifle. Bobby Lee -- Smiling, ready, waiting. Red shrugs and wipes his brow. 
RED => I seen it all now. Butch and Phillip, hand in hand, walking across the field. Red scratches his head. HENDRICKS What's he up to? RED Hell if I know.
SALLY => He's giving himself up. HENDRICKS Keep in mind -- he still has the gun. RED (yells; to Butch) Butch! Stop and let the boy go! Put yer' hands up and let the boy go!!! 
BUTCH => So I guess that's it for Alaska, Phillip. RED Stop and put your hands on your head! GLADYS Run, Phillip!   Come here, Phillip! SALLY  Come on, come on... HENDRICKS  Chief, we've got an armed killer and an innocent boy out there. RED  You clean? BOBBY LEE As a whistle. RED Keep him locked down.    Don't squeeze til' I say 'when.' Red holds Bobby Lee's eyes until the young Fed nods.    Then Red unstraps his holster and moves between the cars.
HENDRICKS => Where the hell you going? But Red's not listening, just walking, long and tall, into the field. Butch and Phillip continue to walk, Butch holding Phillip's hand. When Butch spots Red approaching he slows and then stops. Red shows his palms and keeps walking toward them.     When he gets within 25 feet he stops. RED I'm unarmed.    Toss your gun on the ground. 
SALLY => Give it a second! HENDRICKS  Hold him! SALLY  Let the boy go, Butch! HENDRICKS  If he makes a move...
BUTCH => Mebe' someday you'll get to go... Hendricks looks through the binocs. HENDRICKS He's goin' for his weapon! THROUGH BINOCULARS
IN FIELD => Red squints to make out what Butch's reaching for. HIS POV Butch smiles as he retrieves the POSTCARD from his pocket. BACK TO SCENE A look of concern crosses Red's lips... ROADSIDE Sally realizes it's not a gun that Butch is reaching for. SALLY Noooooo...!!!!
HENDRICKS => Keep everybody back! Bobby Lee stands, lowers his rifle disengages and smiles at Hendricks. BOBBY LEE No need to worry.     He can't hurt nobody now. IN FIELD Red stands frozen, staring, in another world. An OFFICER trots up to Butch and does a careful ground frisk. OFFICER  No weapon, Chief! Red "comes to," turns and walks toward the...
ROADSIDE => Red walks   up to Bobby Lee, stops and stares at the grinning marksman.    After a beat, Red turns then nearly jumps out of shoes with   a sudden right cross that floors the younger man. Red starts   to jump in for more but Hendricks, stunned, jumps in, grabs   Red and, joined by four other Officers, holds the older man   back. Shouting, i.e. "Hey, hey, Red, whoa, whoa!" Red settles a bit. Hendricks turns to Bobby Lee who rises to one knee and wipes at a bloody lip, and then to Red who is still breathing hard. HENDRICKS What the hell was that all about?! RED I didn't say 'when.' 